---
layout: documentation
title: SSA1/SSA2 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# SSA1/SSA2 Siren and Strobe Alarm
This describes the Z-Wave device *SSA1/SSA2*, manufactured by *FortrezZ LLC* with the thing type UID of ```fortrezz_ssa1_00_000```.

The device is in the category of *Siren*, defining Siren used by Alarm systems.

The SSA1/SSA2 supports routing. This allows the device to communicate using other routing enabled devices as intermediate routers.  This device is also able to participate in the routing of data from other devices.

## Overview

Description
===========

The SSA1/SSA2 is a Z-Wave<sup>TM</sup> enabled device and will sound a loud siren and flash a strobe light when an alarm message or alert is received on any Z-Wave<sup>TM</sup> enabled network.

- SSA1: Clear lense
- SSA2: Red lense

Testing the SSA1
================

After connecting power to the SSA1, you can test the alarm mode after manually exiting the Network Wide Inclusion (NWI) mode by pressing the button once or after the unit is included into any Z-Wave<sup>TM</sup> enabled network. To test the SSA1, press and hold the button. The SSA1 will turn on and remain on until the button is released. While the siren is on, it will continually cycle for 1 second off / 4 seconds on for up to 5 minutes or until it is turned off. While the strobe is on, the unit will flash at a rate of once per second.

### Inclusion Information

1. Set up the inclusion mode at the controller (If the controller supports NWI, the SSA1 will automatically be included at power on);
2. If the controller does not support NWI, press the SSA1 button once to exit NWI mode.
3. Press the button again to include the unit in the network. The controller will indicate that the unit has been included in the network. Also, the Status LED will flash when the inclusion completes. Inclusion and exclusion are always done at normal transmit power mode.

### Exclusion Information

1. Set up the exclusion mode at the controller
2. Press the SSA1 button once. The SSA1 will be removed from the network and the Status LED will flash.

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the SSA1/SSA2 -:

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Dimmer | switch_dimmer | DimmableLight | Dimmer | 
| Alarm (burglar) | alarm_burglar | Door | Switch | 

### Dimmer

If a Z-Wave MultiLevel Switch Set or Basic Set signal with a **value of 67 to 99 or 255** is received by the SSA1, the unit will sound a 117-decibel audible alarm and will flash the strobe lights. A **value of 1 to 33** will turn on only the strobe lights while a v**alue of 34 to 66** will turn on only the siren. The same messages with **value 0** will turn off both the siren and strobe lights. Or, the SSA1 can be turned off locally by quickly pressing the button three (3) times. The SSA1 only returns 0, 33, 66, or 99 in response to a Multilevel Switch Get or Basic Get command depending on the mode

The brightness channel allows to control the brightness of a light.
            It is also possible to switch the light on and off.

The ```switch_dimmer``` channel supports the ```Dimmer``` item and is in the ```DimmableLight``` category.

### Alarm (burglar)

Indicates if the burglar alarm is triggered.

The ```alarm_burglar``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OFF | Ok |
| ON | Alarm |



## Device Configuration

The following table provides a summary of the 1 configuration parameters available in the SSA1/SSA2.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 1 | Delay before accept of Basic Set Off | Delay, from the time the siren-strobe turns on, before the Basic Set Off command is accepted. |

### Parameter 1: Delay before accept of Basic Set Off

Delay, from the time the siren-strobe turns on, before the Basic Set Off command is accepted.
Delay, from the time the siren-strobe turns on, before the Basic Set Off command is accepted; 1 Byte (in seconds, default is 0, interpreted as unsigned integer for negative values sent in set command). This could be used, for example, to avoid the situation where an associated window/door sensor turns the SSA1 alarm on and then immediately off when the window/door is opened and then quickly closed.
Values in the range 0 to 255 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```0```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_1_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The device does not support associations.
## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_APPLICATION_STATUS_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_MULTILEVEL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ALARM_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V1| |

### Documentation Links

* [SSA User Manual](https://www.cd-jackson.com/zwave_device_uploads/220/ssa-manual-14may2011---new-address0.pdf)

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [contribute to the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/220).
