---
layout: documentation
title: WV-01 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# WV-01 Wireless Z-Wave Water Valve
This describes the Z-Wave device *WV-01*, manufactured by *FortrezZ LLC* with the thing type UID of ```fortrezz_wv01_00_000```.

The device is in the category of Valve, defining Valves used to control water or gas. e.g. a flow stop valve..

# Overview

## Channels
The following table summarises the channels available for the WV-01

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Switch | switch_binary | Switch | Switch | 
| Alarm | alarm_general | Door | Switch | 

### Switch
The ```switch_binary``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Switch``` category.

### Alarm
The ```alarm_general``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OFF | Ok |
| ON | Alarm |



## Device Configuration
The following table provides a summary of the 2 configuration parameters available in the WV-01.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 0 | Mode |  |
| 1 | WaterLevel Timeout |  |

### Parameter 0: Mode


The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Alarm Mode |
| 255 | Level Mode |

The manufacturer defined default value is 0 (Alarm Mode).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_0_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 1: WaterLevel Timeout


Values in the range 1 to 32767 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 60.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_1_2``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups
Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The WV-01 supports 0 association group.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_APPLICATION_STATUS_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_BINARY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ALARM_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V1| |

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [edit the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/368).
