---
layout: documentation
title: WWA-01 / WWA-02 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# WWA-01 / WWA-02 Wireless Water and Temperature Alarm
This describes the Z-Wave device *WWA-01 / WWA-02*, manufactured by *FortrezZ LLC* with the thing type UID of ```fortrezz_wwa02_00_000```.

The device is in the category of Sensor, defining Device used to measure something.

# Overview


## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the WWA-01 / WWA-02

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Sensor (temperature) | sensor_temperature | Temperature | Number | 
| Alarm | alarm_flood | Door | Switch | 

### Sensor (temperature)

The ```sensor_temperature``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Temperature``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

### Alarm

The ```alarm_flood``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OFF | Ok |
| ON | Alarm |



## Device Configuration

The following table provides a summary of the 2 configuration parameters available in the WWA-01 / WWA-02.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 1 | Low Temperature Trigger Point |  |
| 2 | High Temperature Trigger Point |  |

### Parameter 1: Low Temperature Trigger Point



Values in the range 0 to 255 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 4.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_1_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 2: High Temperature Trigger Point



Values in the range 0 to 255 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 70.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_2_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The WWA-01 / WWA-02 supports 3 association groups.

### Group 1: Water and Temperature Alarms


This group supports 5 nodes.

### Group 2: Water Alarms


This group supports 5 nodes.

### Group 3: Temperature Alarms


This group supports 5 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SENSOR_MULTILEVEL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ALARM_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BATTERY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_WAKE_UP_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V1| |

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [edit the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/222).
