---
layout: documentation
title: BE468 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# BE468 Touchscreen Deadbolt
This describes the Z-Wave device *BE468*, manufactured by *Allegion* with the thing type UID of ```schlage_be468_00_000```.

The device is in the category of Lock, defining Devices whose primary pupose is locking something.

# Overview
Z-Wave Enabled residential auto-throw deadbolt

## Inclusion Information
Extend the bolt on the lock and then perform the following:

Enter 6 Digit Programming Code, then press 0. There will be a green check mark if enrolled or a red X if not enrolled

To verify enrollment:

1\. Remove the battery cover. See Replacing the Batteries on page 4 of the User Guide.

2\. Disconnect the battery connector.

3\. While watching the inside Schlage button, reconnect the battery connector.

4\. The inside Schlage button will blink if the lock is enrolled.

## Exclusion Information
Same as inclusion

## Wakeup Information
N/A

## Channels
The following table summarises the channels available for the BE468

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Door Lock | lock_door | Door | Switch | 
| Alarm (raw) | alarm_raw |  | String | 

### Door Lock
The ```lock_door``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category.

### Alarm (raw)
The ```alarm_raw``` channel supports the ```String``` item. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.



## Device Configuration
The following table provides a summary of the 5 configuration parameters available in the BE468.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 3 | Beeper | Audio feedback when keypad pressed during normal operation |
| 4 | Vacation Mode | Prevents all user codes from unlocking the deadbolt |
| 5 | Lock & Leave | Press the Schlage button to lock the deadbolt |
| 15 | Auto Lock | Automatically locks 30 seconds after unlocking |
| 16 | User Code PIN Length | User codes can be 4-8 digits. Changing length will delete all existing codes. |

### Parameter 3: Beeper
Audio feedback when keypad pressed during normal operation

The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Disable |
| 255 | Enable |

The manufacturer defined default value is 255 (Enable).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_3_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 4: Vacation Mode
Prevents all user codes from unlocking the deadbolt

The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Disable |
| 255 | Enable |

The manufacturer defined default value is 0 (Disable).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_4_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 5: Lock & Leave
Press the Schlage button to lock the deadbolt

The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Disable |
| 255 | Enable |

The manufacturer defined default value is 255 (Enable).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_5_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 15: Auto Lock
Automatically locks 30 seconds after unlocking

The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Disable |
| 255 | Enable |

The manufacturer defined default value is 0 (Disable).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_15_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 16: User Code PIN Length
User codes can be 4-8 digits. Changing length will delete all existing codes.

Values in the range 4 to 8 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 4.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_16_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups
Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The BE468 supports 1 association group.

### Group 1: Group 1

This group supports 2 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_APPLICATION_STATUS_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_DOOR_LOCK_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_USER_CODE_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ALARM_V3| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_FIRMWARE_UPDATE_MD_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BATTERY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SECURITY_V1| |

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [edit the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/240).
