---
layout: documentation
title: FE599NX - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# FE599NX Connected Keypad with Lever
This describes the Z-Wave device *FE599NX*, manufactured by *Allegion* with the thing type UID of ```schlage_fe599nx_00_000```.

The FE599NX supports routing. This allows the device to communicate using other routing enabled devices as intermediate routers.  This device is unable to participate in the routing of data from other devices.

## Overview

No device information is provided in the database. Consider [updating the database](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/403) to improve the documentation.

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the FE599NX -:

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Door Lock | lock_door | Door | Switch | 
| Alarm | alarm_general | Door | Switch | 
| Battery Level | battery-level | Battery | Number |

### Door Lock

Lock and unlock the door.

The ```lock_door``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category.

### Alarm

Indicates if an alarm is triggered.

The ```alarm_general``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OFF | Ok |
| ON | Alarm |

### Battery Level

Represents the battery level as a percentage (0-100%). Bindings for things supporting battery level in a different format (e.g. 4 levels) should convert to a percentage to provide a consistent battery level reading.

The ```battery-level``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Battery``` category.



## Device Configuration

The device has no configuration parameters configured.

## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The FE599NX supports 1 association group.

### Group 1: Alarm Reports


This group supports 5 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_DOOR_LOCK_V0| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_USER_CODE_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ALARM_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_POWERLEVEL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_LOCK_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BATTERY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SECURITY_V1| |

### Documentation Links

* [User Guide](https://www.cd-jackson.com/zwave_device_uploads/403/schlage-fe599-user.pdf)
* [Programming Guide](https://www.cd-jackson.com/zwave_device_uploads/403/schlage-fe599-programming.pdf)

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [contribute to the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/403).
