---
layout: documentation
title: DSB45 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# DSB45 Water Sensor
This describes the Z-Wave device *DSB45*, manufactured by *AEON Labs* with the thing type UID of ```aeon_dsb45_00_000```.

# Overview

## Wakeup Information
To wake up the sensor, _don't_ push the wake up button, as it does nothing. Instead, tap the zwave button once. Use wake up button to put back to sleep immediately.

Press WakeUp button or hold z-wave button

The Water Sensor will keep waking up for 8 seconds after sending the wake up notification command.  
The Water Sensor will keep waking up for 8 seconds to waiting for the next command after receiving a command.  
The Water Sensor will be woken up for 10 minutes when power is on (configurable).  
There are 3 ways to exit the Wake up 10 minutes state:

1. Triple click the tamper switch, and the Water Sensor will sleep immediately
2. Receive the “Wake up no more information CC” command , sleep right now;
3. Receive the other command except “Wake up no more information CC” , the Water Sensor will wake up for 8 seconds and then go to sleep.

## Channels
The following table summarises the channels available for the DSB45

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Binary Sensor | sensor_binary | Door | Switch | 
| Flood Alarm | alarm_flood | Door | Switch | 

### Binary Sensor
The ```sensor_binary``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| ON | Triggered |
| OFF | Untriggered |

### Flood Alarm
The ```alarm_flood``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OFF | Ok |
| ON | Alarm |



## Device Configuration
The following table provides a summary of the 5 configuration parameters available in the DSB45.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 1 | Sensor Binary Report | Toggle the sensor binary report value |
| 2 | Wake up | Enable wake up 10 minutes when the power is switched on. |
| 3 | Basic set value | Toggle the basic set value when the Magnet switch is opened /closed. |
| 121 | Reports that will be sent | configuration Value 4(LSB) |
| 121 | Parameter 121 Value 3 | See documentation |

### Parameter 1: Sensor Binary Report
Toggle the sensor binary report value

The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Open: 00, Close: FF |
| 1 | Open: FF, Close: 00 |

The manufacturer defined default value is 0 (Open: 00, Close: FF).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_1_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 2: Wake up
Enable wake up 10 minutes when the power is switched on.

The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Disable |
| 1 | Enable |

The manufacturer defined default value is 0 (Disable).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_2_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 3: Basic set value
Toggle the basic set value when the Magnet switch is opened /closed.

The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Open: 00, Close: FF |
| 1 | Open: FF, Close: 00 |

The manufacturer defined default value is 0 (Open: 00, Close: FF).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_3_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 121: Reports that will be sent
configuration Value 4(LSB)
See documentation for bytes

Setting to 1 send BATTERY

Setting to 16 sends SENSOR BINARY

Setting to 17 sends SENSOR BINARY and BATTERY
The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Do not send anything |
| 1 | Send battery report |
| 16 | Send Sensor Binary report |
| 17 | Send Sensor Binary and Battery reports |

The manufacturer defined default value is 0 (Do not send anything).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_121_4_000000FF``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 121: Parameter 121 Value 3
See documentation
set to 1 sends BASIC SET

set to 16 sends ALARM

set to 17 sends ALARM and BASIC SET
The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Do not send anything |
| 1 | Send Basic Set |
| 16 | Send ALARM |
| 17 | Send Basic Set and ALARM |

The manufacturer defined default value is 1 (Send Basic Set).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_121_4_0000FF00``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups
Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The DSB45 supports 1 association group.

### Group 1: Group 1

This group supports 5 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SENSOR_BINARY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ALARM_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BATTERY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_WAKE_UP_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V1| |

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [edit the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/92).
