---
layout: documentation
title: DSD31 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# DSD31 Outlet Plugable Siren
This describes the Z-Wave device *DSD31*, manufactured by *[AEON Labs](http://aeotec.com/)* with the thing type UID of ```aeon_dsd31_00_000```.

The device is in the category of *Siren*, defining Siren used by Alarm systems.

The DSD31 supports routing. This allows the device to communicate using other routing enabled devices as intermediate routers.  This device is also able to participate in the routing of data from other devices.

## Overview

No device information is provided in the database. Consider [updating the database](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/86) to improve the documentation.

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the DSD31 -:

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Switch | switch_binary | Switch | Switch | 

### Switch

Switch the power on and off.

The ```switch_binary``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Switch``` category.



## Device Configuration

The following table provides a summary of the 5 configuration parameters available in the DSD31.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 37 | Sirensound and Volume | Sets the sound type and volume |
| 37 | Siren Sound |  |
| 37 | Siren Volume |  |
| 80 | Send Notifications | send notifications to associated devices |
| 252 | Enable/Disable 'Lock' - Configuration |  |

### Parameter 37: Sirensound and Volume

Sets the sound type and volume
The Value1(low byte) is used to select the Siren sound. The Value2(high byte) is used to adjust the volume. Other values will be ignored. 0 1 -> do not change the current sound.1 1 -> Siren sound 1 is selected.2 1 -> Siren sound 2 iThis is an advanced parameter and will therefore not show in the user interface without entering advanced mode.
Values in the range 0 to 65535 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```13```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_37_2``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 37: Siren Sound



The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 1 | Siren Sound 1 |
| 2 | Siren Sound 2 |
| 3 | Siren Sound 3 |
| 4 | Siren Sound 4 |
| 5 | Siren Sound 5 |

The manufacturer defined default value is ```1``` (Siren Sound 1).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_37_2_0000000F``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 37: Siren Volume



The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 1 | 88dB |
| 2 | 100dB |
| 3 | 105dB |

The manufacturer defined default value is ```3``` (105dB).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_37_2_00000F00``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 80: Send Notifications

send notifications to associated devices
Enable to send notifications to associated devices when the state of Siren changed.
The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Nothing |
| 1 | Hail CC |
| 2 | Basic CC Report |

The manufacturer defined default value is ```0``` (Nothing).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_80_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 252: Enable/Disable 'Lock' - Configuration



The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Disable |
| 1 | Enable |

The manufacturer defined default value is ```0``` (Disable).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_252_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The DSD31 supports 1 association group.

### Group 1: Lifeline


This group supports 5 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_BINARY_V1| Linked to BASIC|
| COMMAND_CLASS_SCENE_ACTIVATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SCENE_ACTUATOR_CONF_V0| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_GRP_INFO_V0| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ZWAVEPLUS_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_POWERLEVEL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_FIRMWARE_UPDATE_MD_V0| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SECURITY_V0| |

### Documentation Links

* [User Manual](https://www.cd-jackson.com/zwave_device_uploads/86/Siren-Gen5-Manual.pdf)

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [contribute to the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/86).
