---
layout: documentation
title: ZW088 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# ZW088 4 button keyfob - Gen 5
This describes the Z-Wave device *ZW088*, manufactured by *[AEON Labs](http://aeotec.com/)* with the thing type UID of ```aeon_zw088_01_000```.
This version of the device is limited to firmware versions above 1.0

The ZW088 does not permanently listen for messages sent from the controller - it will periodically wake up automatically to check if the controller has messages to send, but will sleep most of the time to conserve battery life. The wakeup period can be configured in the user interface - it is advisable not to make this too short as it will impact battery life - a reasonable compromise is 1 hour. The wakeup period does not impact the devices ability to report events or sensor data. The device can be manually woken with a button press on the device as described below - note that triggering a device to send an event is not the same as a wakeup notification, and this will not allow the controller to communicate with the device.

## Overview

Key Fob Gen5 is a fully functional Z-wave remote controller, which can include, exclude and control the other Z-Wave certified devices. It also can be acted a secondary controller in a network.

### Inclusion Information

Short press the “Include” button on the Key Fob, it will go into inclusion state and its blue LED will blink slowly to wait including other slave Z-Wave devices.

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the ZW088 -:

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Scene Number | scene_number |  | Number | 
| Battery Level | battery-level | Battery | Number |

### Scene Number

Triggers when a scene button is pressed.

The ```scene_number``` channel supports the ```Number``` item.

### Battery Level

Represents the battery level as a percentage (0-100%). Bindings for things supporting battery level in a different format (e.g. 4 levels) should convert to a percentage to provide a consistent battery level reading.

The ```battery-level``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Battery``` category.



## Device Configuration

The following table provides a summary of the 1 configuration parameters available in the ZW088.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 250 | Use Mode setting | Defines the Use Mode setting of the fob |
|  | Wakeup Interval | Sets the interval at which the device will accept commands from the controller |
|  | Wakeup Node | Sets the node ID of the device to receive the wakeup notifications |

### Parameter 250: Use Mode setting

Defines the Use Mode setting of the fob

The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Group Mode |
| 1 | Scene Mode |

The manufacturer defined default value is ```0``` (Group Mode).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_250_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.

### Wakeup Interval

The wakeup interval sets the period at which the device will listen for messages from the controller. This is required for battery devices that sleep most of the time in order to conserve battery life. The device will wake up at this interval and send a message to the controller to tell it that it can accept messages - after a few seconds, it will go back to sleep if there is no further communications. 

This setting is defined in *seconds*. It is advisable not to set this interval too short or it could impact battery life. A period of 1 hour (3600 seconds) is suitable in most instances.

Note that this setting does not affect the devices ability to send sensor data, or notification events.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```wakeup_interval``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.

### Wakeup Node

When sleeping devices wake up, they send a notification to a listening device. Normally, this device is the network controller, and normally the controller will set this automatically to its own address.
In the event that the network contains multiple controllers, it may be necessary to configure this to a node that is not the main controller. This is an advanced setting and should not be changed without a full understanding of the impact.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```wakeup_node``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The ZW088 supports 8 association groups.

### Group 1: Scene 1


This group supports 5 nodes.

### Group 2: Scene 2


This group supports 5 nodes.

### Group 3: Scene 3


This group supports 5 nodes.

### Group 4: Scene 4


This group supports 5 nodes.

### Group 5: Scene 5


This group supports 5 nodes.

### Group 6: Scene 6


This group supports 5 nodes.

### Group 7: Scene 7


This group supports 5 nodes.

### Group 8: Scene 8


This group supports 5 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V0| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V0| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SCENE_ACTIVATION_V0| Linked to BASIC|
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_GRP_INFO_V0| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_DEVICE_RESET_LOCALLY_V0| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ZWAVEPLUS_INFO_V0| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V0| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V0| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_POWERLEVEL_V0| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BATTERY_V0| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_WAKE_UP_V0| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V0| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V0| |

### Documentation Links

* [Engineering Spec](https://www.cd-jackson.com/zwave_device_uploads/87/z-wave-aeon-labs-key-fob-remote-gen5-engineering-specification.pdf)

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [contribute to the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/87).
