---
layout: documentation
title: ZW080 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# ZW080 Siren Gen5
This describes the Z-Wave device *ZW080*, manufactured by *[AEON Labs](http://aeotec.com/)* with the thing type UID of ```aeon_zw080_00_000```.

The device is in the category of *Siren*, defining Siren used by Alarm systems.

The ZW080 supports routing. This allows the device to communicate using other routing enabled devices as intermediate routers.  This device is also able to participate in the routing of data from other devices.

## Overview

Update command classes -:  
METER:5 :: ADD  
METER:6 :: ADD

### Inclusion Information

1\. Install Siren, and plug it into the socket of AC Power.  
2\. Let the primary controller into inclusion mode (If you don’t know how to do this, please refer to its manual).  
3\. Press the Action Button.  
4\. If the Learning is failed, please repeat the process from step 2.

### Exclusion Information

1\. Install Siren, and plug it into the socket of AC Power.  
2\. Let the primary controller into exclusion mode (If you don’t know how to do this, refer to its manual). 3. Press the Action Button.  
4\. If the remove is failed, please repeat the process from step 2.

Note: If Siren is removed from Z‐wave network, it will be reset to factory default.

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the ZW080 -:

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Switch | switch_binary | Switch | Switch | 
| Sound and Volume | config_decimal |  | Decimal | 

### Switch

Switch the power on and off.

The ```switch_binary``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Switch``` category.

### Sound and Volume

Value 1 (LSB) Sound (bits 0-4), Value 2 (MSB) volume (bits 0-2)

Generic class for configuration parameter.

The ```config_decimal``` channel supports the ```Decimal``` item.



## Device Configuration

The following table provides a summary of the 5 configuration parameters available in the ZW080.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 37 | Siren Sound |  |
| 37 | Siren Volume |  |
| 80 | Enable Notifications to Group 1 | what type of notification to send to Group 1 |
| 200 | Partner ID |  |
| 252 | Enable/disable Lock Configuration |  |

### Parameter 37: Siren Sound



The following option values may be configured, in addition to values in the range 0 to 5 -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Do not change the current Siren sound |
| 1 | Siren sound 1 is selected |
| 2 | Siren sound 2 is selected |
| 3 | Siren sound 3 is selected |
| 4 | Siren sound 4 is selected |
| 5 | Siren sound 5 is selected |

The manufacturer defined default value is ```1``` (Siren sound 1 is selected).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_37_2_000000FF``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 37: Siren Volume



The following option values may be configured, in addition to values in the range 0 to 3 -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Do not change the current volume |
| 1 | Set the volume to 88 dB |
| 2 | Set the volume to 100 dB |
| 3 | Set the volume to 105 dB |

The manufacturer defined default value is ```3``` (Set the volume to 105 dB).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_37_2_0000FF00``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 80: Enable Notifications to Group 1

what type of notification to send to Group 1
Enable to send notifications to associated devices (Group1) when the state of Siren changed (0=nothing,1=hailCC,2=basic CC report).
Values in the range 0 to 255 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```25```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_80_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 200: Partner ID



Values in the range 0 to 255 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```0```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_200_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 252: Enable/disable Lock Configuration



The following option values may be configured, in addition to values in the range 0 to 1 -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Setting of configuration parameters is allowed |
| 1 | All configuration parameters cannot be set (Locked) |

The manufacturer defined default value is ```0``` (Setting of configuration parameters is allowed).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_252_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The ZW080 supports 1 association group.

### Group 1: Group 1


This group supports 5 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_BINARY_V1| Linked to BASIC|
| COMMAND_CLASS_SCENE_ACTIVATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SCENE_ACTUATOR_CONF_V0| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_GRP_INFO_V0| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ZWAVEPLUS_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_POWERLEVEL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_FIRMWARE_UPDATE_MD_V0| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SECURITY_V0| |

### Documentation Links

* [Engineering Specification](https://www.cd-jackson.com/zwave_device_uploads/90/aeotec-zw080a17-engineering-spec.pdf)

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [contribute to the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/90).
