---
layout: documentation
title: ZW120 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# ZW120 Door/Window sensor Gen5
This describes the Z-Wave device *ZW120*, manufactured by *AEON Labs* with the thing type UID of ```aeon_zw120_00_000```.

The device is in the category of Sensor, defining Device used to measure something.

# Overview
Aeon Labs Door/ Window Sensor Gen5 is a smart Z-Wave sensor that can detect the status of door/window's open/close in real time. It’s a security Z-Wave device that supports security encryption. It can be included and operated in any Z-Wave network with other Z-Wave certified devices from manufacturers and/or other applications.

## Inclusion Information
To include your Sensor as a non-security device in your Z-wave network, turn the primary controller into inclusion mode, then press the Action Button once on Door Window Sensor. To include your Sensor as a secure device, turn the primary controller into inclusion mode, then press the Sensor’s Action Button 2 times within 1 second

## Exclusion Information
To exclude your sensor from the z-wave network, turn the primary controller into exclusion mode, then press the Action Button once on Door Window Sensor.

## Wakeup Information
Remove your Sensor unit from its Back Mounting Plate, press the Action Button on the back of the Sensor unit and then release the Action Button. This will trigger and send a wake up notification command to your controller/gateway.

## Channels
The following table summarises the channels available for the ZW120

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Binary Sensor | sensor_binary | Door | Switch | 
| Alarm (general) | alarm_general | Door | Switch | 

### Binary Sensor
The ```sensor_binary``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| ON | Triggered |
| OFF | Untriggered |

### Alarm (general)
The ```alarm_general``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OFF | Ok |
| ON | Alarm |



## Device Configuration
The following table provides a summary of the 7 configuration parameters available in the ZW120.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 1 | Magnet ON/OFF | Value sent when the Magnet is triggered On/Off. |
| 2 | Enable wake up 10 minutes when re-power on the sensor | Default setting: Disable |
| 3 | Basic Set Report | Which value of the Basic Set will be sent when the door is Opened/Closed |
| 39 | Set the low battery value. | 10% to 50% |
| 111 | Set the interval time of low battery checking. | Minimum interval is 4 minutes, Range is 0 to 2147483647 |
| 121 | Report type | Sensor report sent when triggered Opened/Closed |
| 255 | Reset To Factory Defaults. |  |

### Parameter 1: Magnet ON/OFF
Value sent when the Magnet is triggered On/Off.
Which value of the Sensor Binary Report or Basic Set will be sent when the Magnet is triggered On/Off.
The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Close=0xFF, Open=0x00 |
| 1 | Close=0x00, Open=0xFF |

The manufacturer defined default value is 0 (Close=0xFF, Open=0x00).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_1_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 2: Enable wake up 10 minutes when re-power on the sensor
Default setting: Disable

The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Disable |
| 1 | Enable |

The manufacturer defined default value is 1 (Enable).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_2_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 3: Basic Set Report
Which value of the Basic Set will be sent when the door is Opened/Closed

The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Open: 0xFF, Close: 0x00 |
| 1 | Open: 0x00, Close: 0xFF |

The manufacturer defined default value is 0 (Open: 0xFF, Close: 0x00).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_3_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 39: Set the low battery value.
10% to 50%

Values in the range 10 to 50 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 10.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_39_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 111: Set the interval time of low battery checking.
Minimum interval is 4 minutes, Range is 0 to 2147483647

Values in the range 0 to 2147483647 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 86640.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_111_4``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 121: Report type
Sensor report sent when triggered Opened/Closed
To configure which sensor report will be sent when the Sensor is triggered Opened/Closed. Bitsets: 0->Battery report, 4->Sensor Binary, 8->Basic Set, Default setting: 0x00000100 (Basic Set).Ideal Setting for OZW is 17 (Sensor Binary and Battery Report).
Values in the range 0 to 65535 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 1.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_121_4``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 255: Reset To Factory Defaults.


The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Reset to factory default setting |
| 1 | Normal |
| 1431655765 | Reset to factory default |

The manufacturer defined default value is 0 (Reset to factory default setting).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_255_4``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups
Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The ZW120 supports 1 association group.

### Group 1: Group 1

This group supports 5 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SENSOR_BINARY_V1| Linked to BASIC|
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ALARM_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BATTERY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_WAKE_UP_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V1| |

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [edit the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/405).
