---
layout: documentation
title: PAN16 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# PAN16 Smart Energy Plug In Switch
This describes the Z-Wave device *PAN16*, manufactured by *[Philio Technology Corp](http://www.philio-tech.com/)* with the thing type UID of ```philio_pan16_01_002```.
This version of the device is limited to firmware versions above 1.2

The PAN16 supports routing. This allows the device to communicate using other routing enabled devices as intermediate routers.  This device is also able to participate in the routing of data from other devices.

## Overview

This plug-in ON/OFF switch PAN16 is a security enabled Z-Wave Plus product, based on Z-Wave Plus technology. The device will enable security mode automatically if the controller supports security mode, too. Z-Wave PlusTM enabled devices displaying the Z-Wave PlusTM logo can also be used with it regardless of the manufacturer, and can also be used in other manufacturer’s Z-WaveTM enabled networks. Remote On/Off control of the connected load is possible with other manufacturer’s wireless Controller. Each switch is designed to act as a repeater. Repeaters will re-transmit the RF signal to ensure that the signal is received by its intended destination by routing the signal around obstacles and radio dead spots. Because PAN16 supports Security Command Class, it can learn with a Secured enabled Z-Wave controller to fully utilize the device. Its functionality and supported command classes is identical when included as a secure and non-secure device.   
This plug-in ON/OFF switch is able to detect instance wattage (3000W/230Vac) (13Ampere) and overload current (14.5A with resistive load) of connected lights or appliances. When detecting overload state, the Switch will be disabled and its On/Off button will be lockout of which LED will flash quickly. However, unplug and re-connect the switch will reset its overload condition to normal status.   
Adding to Z-WaveTM Network   
In the front casing, there is an On/Off button with LED indicator which is used to toggle switch on and off or carry out inclusion, exclusion, reset or association. When first power is applied, its LED flashes on and off alternately and repeatedly at 0.5 second intervals. It implies that it has not been assigned a node ID and start auto inclusion.   
Auto Inclusion   
The function of auto inclusion will be executed as long as the switch does not have Node ID and just plug the switch into a wall outlet.   
Note: Auto inclusion timeout is 2 minute during which the node information of explorer frame will be emitted once several seconds. Unlike “inclusion” function as shown in the table below, the execution of auto inclusion is free from pressing the On/Off button on the Switch.

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the PAN16 -:

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Switch | switch_binary | Switch | Switch | 
| Electric meter (volts) | meter_voltage | Energy | Number | 
| Electric meter (amps) | meter_current | Energy | Number | 
| Electric meter (kWh) | meter_kwh | Energy | Number | 
| Electric meter (watts) | meter_watts | Energy | Number | 
| Electric meter (power factor) | meter_powerfactor | Energy | Number | 
| Alarm | alarm_general | Door | Switch | 

### Switch

Switch the power on and off.

The ```switch_binary``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Switch``` category.

### Electric meter (volts)

Indicates the instantaneous voltage.

The ```meter_voltage``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Energy``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

### Electric meter (amps)

Indicates the instantaneous current consumption.

The ```meter_current``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Energy``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

### Electric meter (kWh)

Indicates the energy consumption (kWh).

The ```meter_kwh``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Energy``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

### Electric meter (watts)

Indicates the instantaneous power consumption.

The ```meter_watts``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Energy``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

### Electric meter (power factor)

Indicates the instantaneous power factor.

The ```meter_powerfactor``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Energy``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

### Alarm

Indicates if an alarm is triggered.

The ```alarm_general``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OFF | Ok |
| ON | Alarm |



## Device Configuration

The device has no configuration parameters configured.

## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The PAN16 supports 1 association group.

### Group 1: Report


This group supports 1 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V0| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_BINARY_V1| Linked to BASIC|
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_ALL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_METER_V3| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_GRP_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_DEVICE_RESET_LOCALLY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ZWAVEPLUS_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ALARM_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_POWERLEVEL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_PROTECTION_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_FIRMWARE_UPDATE_MD_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V2| |

### Documentation Links

* [Reference Manual](https://www.cd-jackson.com/zwave_device_uploads/642/PAN16-A1-manual-20160921.pdf)

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [contribute to the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/642).
