---
layout: documentation
title: PSE02 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# PSE02 Siren
This describes the Z-Wave device *PSE02*, manufactured by *[Philio Technology Corp](http://www.philio-tech.com/)* with the thing type UID of ```philio_pse02_00_000```.

The PSE02 supports routing. This allows the device to communicate using other routing enabled devices as intermediate routers.  This device is also able to participate in the routing of data from other devices.

## Overview

No device information is provided in the database. Consider [updating the database](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/320) to improve the documentation.

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the PSE02 -:

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Switch | switch_binary | Switch | Switch | 
| Start sound | notification_send |  | Number | 

### Switch

Switch the power on and off.

The ```switch_binary``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Switch``` category.

### Start sound

Sends a notification.

The ```notification_send``` channel supports the ```Number``` item.



## Device Configuration

The following table provides a summary of the 3 configuration parameters available in the PSE02.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 7 | Costumer  Function | NotificationReport/BinaryReport |
| 29 | Disable Alarm | Disable the alarm function. |
| 31 | Alarm Duration |  |

### Parameter 7: Costumer  Function

NotificationReport/BinaryReport
Customer function switch, using bit control. 0 Bit4: Notification Type, 0: Using Notification Report. 1: Using Sensor Binary Report.This is an advanced parameter and will therefore not show in the user interface without entering advanced mode.
Values in the range 0 to 65535 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```4```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_7_4``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 29: Disable Alarm

Disable the alarm function.
Disable the alarm function. 1: Disable Alarm, 0: Enable Alarm. Caution: After the power up, this configuration is always 0.
Values in the range 0 to 0 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```0```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_29_4``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 31: Alarm Duration



Values in the range 0 to 127 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```6```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_31_4_0000000C``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The device does not support associations.
## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_BINARY_V1| Linked to BASIC|
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_GRP_INFO_V0| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_DEVICE_RESET_LOCALLY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ZWAVEPLUS_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ALARM_V3| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_POWERLEVEL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_FIRMWARE_UPDATE_MD_V0| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SECURITY_V0| |

### Documentation Links

* [User Manual](https://www.cd-jackson.com/zwave_device_uploads/320/PSE02-Manual-2014-10-29.pdf)

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [contribute to the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/320).
