---
layout: documentation
title: PSP05 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# PSP05 Motion Sensor
This describes the Z-Wave device *PSP05*, manufactured by *Philio Technology Corp* with the thing type UID of ```philio_psp05_00_000```.

The device is in the category of Sensor, defining Device used to measure something.

# Overview


## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the PSP05

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Binary Sensor | sensor_binary | Door | Switch | 
| Alarm (burglar) | alarm_burglar | Door | Switch | 

### Binary Sensor

The ```sensor_binary``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| ON | Triggered |
| OFF | Untriggered |

### Alarm (burglar)

The ```alarm_burglar``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OFF | Ok |
| ON | Alarm |



## Device Configuration

The following table provides a summary of the 9 configuration parameters available in the PSP05.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 3 | PIR Sensitivity | Adjust the PIR Sensitivity |
| 7 | Motion OFF Reporting | Sends notification when motion has completed. |
| 7 | Notification Type | Method used to send notifications on motion |
| 7 | Send Multi CC in auto report | Send Multi CC in auto report |
| 7 | Send Battery Report when Triggered | Whether or not a battery status report should be sent when triggered |
| 8 | Re-detection interval | Multiples of 8 seconds to wait before re-detection |
| 9 | Turn off light time | Time to wait after lighting has been turned on before turning off again |
| 10 | Batery level reporting interval | How frequently battery status should be reported |
| 20 | Tick Interval | Interval time for sending reports |

### Parameter 3: PIR Sensitivity

Adjust the PIR Sensitivity
This setting sets the sensitivity of the PIR (motion) sensor. A setting of 0 (zero) will disable the sensor, with 99 being the highest level of sensitivity. The default sensitivity setting is 80.

The higher the sensitivity, the greater the range of detection (things farther away will trigger the sensor). However, this may also result in things that are nearer triggering the sensor too frequently.
Values in the range 0 to 99 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 80.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_3_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 7: Motion OFF Reporting

Sends notification when motion has completed.
Sends notification when motion has completed.
The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Don't Send Report |
| 1 | Send Report |

The manufacturer defined default value is 0 (Don't Send Report).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_7_1_00000010``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 7: Notification Type

Method used to send notifications on motion
Indicates method used to send notifications in the event of motion being triggered. Either Binary Sensor or Notification
The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Report Notification |
| 1 | Binary Sensor |

The manufacturer defined default value is 0 (Report Notification).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_7_1_00001000``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 7: Send Multi CC in auto report

Send Multi CC in auto report
Investigation required to determine purpose of this.
The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Disable |
| 1 | Enable |

The manufacturer defined default value is 0 (Disable).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_7_1_00010000``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 7: Send Battery Report when Triggered

Whether or not a battery status report should be sent when triggered

The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Enable |
| 1 | Disable |

The manufacturer defined default value is 0 (Enable).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_7_1_00100000``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 8: Re-detection interval

Multiples of 8 seconds to wait before re-detection
By default, the sensor will wait 24 seconds (3 x 8) after detecting motion before it will send a further detection report. This value can be increased to a maximum of 127 (which is 127 \* 8), meaning the re-detection interval will be 1,016 seconds (~17 minutes). The minimum value is 1 (1 \* 8), meaning a re-detection interval of 8 seconds.

The default is a value of 3, meaning a re-detection interval of 24 seconds.
Values in the range 1 to 127 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 3.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_8_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 9: Turn off light time

Time to wait after lighting has been turned on before turning off again
Number of seconds (in multiples of 8) to wait before turning off lights that were turned on as a result of motion occurring. A default value of 4 means (4 x 8) 32 seconds later, lights will be turned off.

This setting should only be used when you are using association groups to control lighting events. If you are controlling on/off events as a result of motion through independent rules, this setting is irrelevant.
Values in the range 0 to 127 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 4.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_9_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 10: Batery level reporting interval

How frequently battery status should be reported
The frequency (in multiples of 'Tick Time') that the device should send battery status reports. If set to 0, battery status reports are not sent.

The default 'tick time' (see other parameter settings) is 30, meaning 30 minutes. The default value of this parameter is 12, meaning that a battery report will be sent every 6 hours (12 \* 30 minutes).
Values in the range 0 to 127 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 12.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_10_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 20: Tick Interval

Interval time for sending reports
This setting is used by the battery reporting interval setting. This setting defines the 'tick interval' or the number of time blocks to wait between sending reports. The default value of 30 means that a tick interval is 30 minutes.
Values in the range 0 to 127 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 30.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_20_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The PSP05 supports 2 association groups.

### Group 1: Lifeline

The group 1 is for receiving the report message
This group supports 8 nodes.

### Group 2: Basic Set

The group 2 is for light control
This group supports 8 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SENSOR_BINARY_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_GRP_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_DEVICE_RESET_LOCALLY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ZWAVEPLUS_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ALARM_V4| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_POWERLEVEL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BATTERY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_WAKE_UP_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MULTI_CMD_V1| |

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [edit the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/600).
