---
layout: documentation
title: PSR04 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# PSR04 Smart Color Button
This describes the Z-Wave device *PSR04*, manufactured by *[Philio Technology Corp](http://www.philio-tech.com/)* with the thing type UID of ```philio_psr04_00_000```.

The PSR04 supports routing. This allows the device to communicate using other routing enabled devices as intermediate routers.  This device is unable to participate in the routing of data from other devices.

The PSR04 does not permanently listen for messages sent from the controller - it will periodically wake up automatically to check if the controller has messages to send, but will sleep most of the time to conserve battery life. The wakeup period can be configured in the user interface - it is advisable not to make this too short as it will impact battery life - a reasonable compromise is 1 hour. The wakeup period does not impact the devices ability to report events or sensor data. The device can be manually woken with a button press on the device as described below - note that triggering a device to send an event is not the same as a wakeup notification, and this will not allow the controller to communicate with the device.

## Overview

### Wakeup Information

By default, this device only wakes up every 86400 seconds (24 hours). To manually wake this device up:

1. Hold the device vertically, or against a wall (this will not work if the device is horizontal).
2. Rotate the wheel so that the pointer is at the top of the device.
3. Wait at least three seconds.
4. Rotate the wheel clockwise through 180 degrees to the bottom of the device.
5. Immediately press the centre button once.

This activates the wakeup for 10 seconds, during which time you will be able to identify the device correctly.

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the PSR04 -:

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Dimmer | switch_dimmer | DimmableLight | Dimmer | 
| Scene Number | scene_number |  | Number | 
| Battery Level | battery-level | Battery | Number |

### Dimmer

The brightness channel allows to control the brightness of a light.
            It is also possible to switch the light on and off.

The ```switch_dimmer``` channel supports the ```Dimmer``` item and is in the ```DimmableLight``` category.

### Scene Number

Triggers when a scene button is pressed.

The ```scene_number``` channel supports the ```Number``` item.

### Battery Level

Represents the battery level as a percentage (0-100%). Bindings for things supporting battery level in a different format (e.g. 4 levels) should convert to a percentage to provide a consistent battery level reading.

The ```battery-level``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Battery``` category.



## Device Configuration

The following table provides a summary of the 5 configuration parameters available in the PSR04.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 1 | Basic Set OFF level | Control the value represented by the left-side in area D. |
| 2 | Basic Set ON level | Control the value represented by the right-side in area D. |
| 10 | Auto Report Battery Time | The interval time for auto reporting the Battery level. |
| 25 | Customer Function | Bit 0: Dimmer setting method. Bit 1: Disable buzzer in timer mode. |
| 26 | Disable Scene Holding report | Send Central Scene Holding when the button is held. |
|  | Wakeup Interval | Sets the interval at which the device will accept commands from the controller |
|  | Wakeup Node | Sets the node ID of the device to receive the wakeup notifications |

### Parameter 1: Basic Set OFF level

Control the value represented by the left-side in area D.
 E.g. Setting this configuration to 0x0F means range of Command Basic Set value start from 0x0F.
Values in the range 0 to 99 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```0```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_1_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 2: Basic Set ON level

Control the value represented by the right-side in area D.
 E.g. Setting this configuration to 0x1E means range of Command Basic Set value start from 0x1E.
Values in the range 0 to 99 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```99```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_2_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 10: Auto Report Battery Time

The interval time for auto reporting the Battery level.
0: Function is disabled.  
1 - 127: Define the time interval.

0 means turn off auto report battery. The default value of 12 is equivalent to 6 hours.
Values in the range 0 to 127 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```12```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_10_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 25: Customer Function

Bit 0: Dimmer setting method. Bit 1: Disable buzzer in timer mode.

Values in the range 0 to 1 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```0```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_25_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 26: Disable Scene Holding report

Send Central Scene Holding when the button is held.

The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Disable |
| 1 | Enable |

The manufacturer defined default value is ```0``` (Disable).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_26_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.

### Wakeup Interval

The wakeup interval sets the period at which the device will listen for messages from the controller. This is required for battery devices that sleep most of the time in order to conserve battery life. The device will wake up at this interval and send a message to the controller to tell it that it can accept messages - after a few seconds, it will go back to sleep if there is no further communications. 

This setting is defined in *seconds*. It is advisable not to set this interval too short or it could impact battery life. A period of 1 hour (3600 seconds) is suitable in most instances.

Note that this setting does not affect the devices ability to send sensor data, or notification events.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```wakeup_interval``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.

### Wakeup Node

When sleeping devices wake up, they send a notification to a listening device. Normally, this device is the network controller, and normally the controller will set this automatically to its own address.
In the event that the network contains multiple controllers, it may be necessary to configure this to a node that is not the main controller. This is an advanced setting and should not be changed without a full understanding of the impact.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```wakeup_node``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The PSR04 supports 2 association groups.

### Group 1: Controller updates

For receiving the report message, like the battery level.
This group supports 8 nodes.

### Group 2: Light control

For light control. The device will send Basic Set command to this group.
This group supports 8 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_GRP_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_DEVICE_RESET_LOCALLY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CENTRAL_SCENE_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ZWAVEPLUS_INFO_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_POWERLEVEL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_FIRMWARE_UPDATE_MD_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BATTERY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_WAKE_UP_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MULTI_CMD_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SECURITY_V1| |

### Documentation Links

* [User Manual](https://www.cd-jackson.com/zwave_device_uploads/291/PSR04.pdf)

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [contribute to the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/291).
