---
layout: documentation
title: EBV-105 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# EBV-105 Wireless Water Shutoff Valve
This describes the Z-Wave device *EBV-105*, manufactured by *EcoNet Controls* with the thing type UID of ```econet_ebv105_00_000```.

The EBV-105 supports routing. This allows the device to communicate using other routing enabled devices as intermediate routers.  This device is also able to participate in the routing of data from other devices.

## Overview

The EBV105 water shutoff controller is easy to install and configure. No special tools or plumbing required. The included clamp supports installation

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the EBV-105 -:

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Switch | switch_binary | Switch | Switch | 

### Switch

Switch the power on and off.

The ```switch_binary``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Switch``` category.



## Device Configuration

The device has no configuration parameters configured.

## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The EBV-105 supports 1 association group.

### Group 1: Group 1


This group supports 5 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_BINARY_V1| Linked to BASIC|
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_ALL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V1| |

### Documentation Links

* [Quick Start Guide](https://www.cd-jackson.com/zwave_device_uploads/271/EBV105-Z-Valve-Quick-Start-Guide-M2.pdf)

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [contribute to the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/271).
