---
layout: intro
title: Privacy Policy
---
{% comment %}<!-- Based on http://www.openhab.org/privacy.html -->{% endcomment %}
<script>function gaOptout() {document.cookie = disableStr + '=true; expires=Thu, 31 Dec 2099 23:59:59 UTC; path=/';window[disableStr] = true;alert("Google Analytics has been disabled!");}</script>

# Privacy Policy

With the following statements we want to inform you, which personal information we handle about you, if you are using our website or the mobile reference applications.

The use of our website is possible without providing any personal information.

We point out that data transmission over the Internet (e.g. when communicating by e-mail) may have security gaps. A complete protection of data against access by third parties is not possible.

The use of the the published contact data by third parties for sending unsolicited advertisements and information materials is hereby expressly excluded. The operators of the pages expressly legal steps in case of unsolicited promotional information, such as spam e-mails.

## Privacy Statement for the Use of Google Analytics

Our website uses Google Analytics, a web analytics service provided by Google Inc. ("Google"). Google Analytics uses "cookies", text files that are stored on your computer, to help analyze how users use the website. The information generated by the cookie about your use of this website are usually transferred to a server of Google in the USA and stored there. In the case of activation of the IP anonymization on this website, your IP address will be truncated within Member states of the European Union or other parties to the Agreement on the European Economic Area.

Only in exceptional cases is the complete IP address transmitted to a Google server in the USA and shortened there. On behalf of the operator of this website Google will use this information to evaluate your use of the website, compiling reports on website activity and providing other with website and internet related services to the website operator. Undertaken as part of Google Analytics that your IP address is not associated with any other data held by Google.

You may refuse the use of cookies by selecting the appropriate settings on your browser, we would point out, however, that you may then be used to their full extent in this case not all features of this website. You can also prevent the collection of data generated by the cookie about your use of the website (including your IP address) to Google and the processing of these data by Google, by downloading and installing a browser plugin that is available under the following link: <a href="http://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout?hl=en">http://tools.google.com/dlpage/gaoptout?hl=en</a>.

You can refuse the collection of your data by Google Analytics by clicking on the following link. An opt-out cookie is set that prevents the collection of your data on future visits of this website: <a href="javascript:gaOptout();">Deactivate Google Analytics</a>.
