---
layout: documentation
title: Telldus Plugin Slim - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# Telldus Plugin Slim
This describes the Z-Wave device *Telldus Plugin Slim*, manufactured by *[Telldus Technologies AB](http://www.telldus.com/)* with the thing type UID of ```telldus_313510_00_000```.

The device is in the category of *Power Outlet*, defining Small devices to be plugged into a power socket in a wall which stick there.

The Telldus Plugin Slim supports routing. This allows the device to communicate using other routing enabled devices as intermediate routers.  This device is also able to participate in the routing of data between other devices in the mesh network.

## Overview

Telldus Z-Wave Plug-in Switch Mini, small size, clean design with energy metering and overcurrent protection. With its small size and clean design, it fits into your home interior design very well also it is possible to use two devices side by side in most electrical outlets. LED indicator can be turned off to not disturb in dark rooms. Control lighting, chargers and other electronic equipment up to 2300 W (resistive load).

With energy consumption measuring you don’t only see the actual consumption, it can also help to find out if your connected device is ok or not or turn off the mobile charger when the mobile phone is fully charged for safe operation.

The device acts as a repeater for the Z-Wave network. 

### Inclusion Information

**Automatically add device to network**

When the device is inserted into an electrical outlet it’s in automatic add mode (Network Wide Inclusion, NWI). This means that the device is added automatically when the Z-Wave controller enters add mode.

**Manually add device to network**

Start the add mode on the Z-Wave controller. Press the button on the device three times fast. The device will now be added into the Z-Wave network.

### Exclusion Information

Start the exclusion mode on the Z-Wave controller. Press the button on the device three times fast. The device will now be removed from the Z-Wave network.

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the Telldus Plugin Slim -:

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|



## Device Configuration

The device has no configuration parameters defined.

## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The device does not support associations.
## Technical Information

### Endpoints


---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [contribute to the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/937).
