---
layout: documentation
title: SM103 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# SM103 Door/Window Contact
This describes the Z-Wave device *SM103*, manufactured by *Chromagic Technologies Corporation* with the thing type UID of ```chromagic_sm103_00_000```.

# Overview


## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the SM103

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Binary Sensor | sensor_binary | Door | Switch | 
| Alarm | alarm_general | Door | Switch | 

### Binary Sensor

The ```sensor_binary``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| ON | Triggered |
| OFF | Untriggered |

### Alarm

The ```alarm_general``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OFF | Ok |
| ON | Alarm |



## Device Configuration

The following table provides a summary of the 2 configuration parameters available in the SM103.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 1 | Basic Set Level | Value to be sent with a BASIC SET command |
| 2 | Configuring the OFF Delay | OFF Delay in seconds |

### Parameter 1: Basic Set Level

Value to be sent with a BASIC SET command

Values in the range 0 to 99 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 99.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_1_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 2: Configuring the OFF Delay

OFF Delay in seconds

Values in the range 0 to 127 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 1.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_2_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The SM103 supports 2 association groups.

### Group 1: Tamper Event Report (Alarm Report)


This group supports 5 nodes.

### Group 2: Control other Z-Wave Devices


This group supports 5 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SENSOR_BINARY_V1| Linked to BASIC|
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ALARM_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BATTERY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_WAKE_UP_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V1| |

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [edit the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/428).
