---
layout: documentation
title: FS20Z - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# FS20Z Isolated Contact Fixture Module
This describes the Z-Wave device *FS20Z*, manufactured by *Linear Corp* with the thing type UID of ```linear_fs20z_00_000```.

The FS20Z supports routing. This allows the device to communicate using other routing enabled devices as intermediate routers.  This device is also able to participate in the routing of data from other devices.

## Overview

No device information is provided in the database. Consider [updating the database](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/10) to improve the documentation.

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the FS20Z -:

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Switch | switch_binary | Switch | Switch | 

### Switch

Switch the power on and off.

The ```switch_binary``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Switch``` category.



## Device Configuration

The following table provides a summary of the 1 configuration parameters available in the FS20Z.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 3 | Night Light | In night-light mode the LED on the switch will turn ON when the switch is turned OFF. |

### Parameter 3: Night Light

In night-light mode the LED on the switch will turn ON when the switch is turned OFF.

The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | No |
| 1 | Yes |

The manufacturer defined default value is ```1``` (Yes).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_3_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The device does not support associations.
## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_BINARY_V1| Linked to BASIC|
| COMMAND_CLASS_SCENE_ACTIVATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V1| |

### Documentation Links

* [User Manual](https://www.cd-jackson.com/zwave_device_uploads/10/FS20Z1-manual.pdf)

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [contribute to the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/10).
