---
layout: documentation
title: NGD00Z-4 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# NGD00Z-4 Garage Door Controller
This describes the Z-Wave device *NGD00Z-4*, manufactured by *Linear Corp* with the thing type UID of ```linear_ngd00z4_00_000```.

The device is in the category of Garage Door, defining Garage Door.

# Overview

**GARAGE DOOR OPENER REMOTE COMMAND TRANSCEIVER with TILT SENSOR**

## Inclusion Information

**TO INCLUDE THE GD00Z-4 INTO YOUR CONTROLLER**

1. Place your Z-Wave Controller into Discovery or Include mode.
2. Press and release the link button on the GD00Z-4.
3. Confirm that the GD00Z-4 was recognized by your Z-Wave Controller.

## Exclusion Information

**TO EXCLUDE THE GD00Z-4 FROM YOUR CONTROLLER**

1. Place your Z-Wave Controller into Exclude mode.
2. Press and release the link button on the GD00Z-4.
3. Confirm that the GD00Z-4 was excluded by your Z-Wave Controller.

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the NGD00Z-4

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Barrier State | barrier_state | Door | Number | 
| Alarm (raw) | alarm_raw |  | String | 

### Barrier State

The ```barrier_state``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Number``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| 0 | Closed |
| 252 | Closing |
| 253 | Stopped |
| 254 | Opening |
| 255 | Open |

### Alarm (raw)

The ```alarm_raw``` channel supports the ```String``` item. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.



## Device Configuration

The device has no configuration parameters configugured.

## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The NGD00Z-4 supports 1 association group.

### Group 1: Group 1


This group supports 1 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_APPLICATION_STATUS_V0| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_DEVICE_RESET_LOCALLY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BARRIER_OPERATOR_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ALARM_V3| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SECURITY_V1| |

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [edit the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/11).
