---
layout: documentation
title: WA00Z-1 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# WA00Z-1 Wall Mounted Switch
This describes the Z-Wave device *WA00Z-1*, manufactured by *Linear Corp* with the thing type UID of ```linear_wa00z1_00_000```.

# Overview

## Channels
The following table summarises the channels available for the WA00Z-1

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Scene Number | scene_number |  | Number | 

### Scene Number
The ```scene_number``` channel supports the ```Number``` item.



## Device Configuration
The following table provides a summary of the 3 configuration parameters available in the WA00Z-1.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 1 | Activation of Central Scene | Set top and bottom button scene numbers. |
| 2 | Control Mode | Control other devices or issue various scene activation... |
| 4 | Invert Switch | Invert top of switch ON/OFF buttons |

### Parameter 1: Activation of Central Scene
Set top and bottom button scene numbers.
Z-Wave Plus introduces a new process for scene activation – “Central Scene   
Control”. Press and release the button, it will send a certain command to the   
central controller via the lifeline association group 1. This allows the controller   
to react to both a button press and a button release. This mode implements   
communication pattern 6, and requires a gateway supporting Z-Wave Plus.
Values in the range 0 to 99 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 0.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_1_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 2: Control Mode
Control other devices or issue various scene activation...
... commands to a central controller.
Values in the range 0 to 2 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 0.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_2_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 4: Invert Switch
Invert top of switch ON/OFF buttons
To change the top of the switch to OFF and the bottom of the switch ON, set Parameter 4 to a value of 1.
Values in the range 0 to 1 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 0.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_4_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups
Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The WA00Z-1 supports 3 association groups.

### Group 1: Lifeline

This group supports 1 nodes.

### Group 2: Group 2

This group supports 5 nodes.

### Group 3: Group 3

This group supports 5 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_GRP_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_DEVICE_RESET_LOCALLY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CENTRAL_SCENE_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ZWAVEPLUS_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_POWERLEVEL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_FIRMWARE_UPDATE_MD_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BATTERY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_WAKE_UP_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V2| |

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [edit the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/610).
