---
layout: documentation
title: PSMZ0001 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# PSMZ0001 Plug module
This describes the Z-Wave device *PSMZ0001*, manufactured by *Coqon* with the thing type UID of ```coqon_psmz0001_00_000```.

The device is in the category of *Power Outlet*, defining Small devices to be plugged into a power socket in a wall which stick there.

The PSMZ0001 does not permanently listen for messages sent from the controller - it will periodically wake up automatically to check if the controller has messages to send, but will sleep most of the time to conserve battery life. The wakeup period can be configured in the user interface - it is advisable not to make this too short as it will impact battery life - a reasonable compromise is 1 hour. The wakeup period does not impact the devices ability to report events or sensor data. The device can be manually woken with a button press on the device as described below - note that triggering a device to send an event is not the same as a wakeup notification, and this will not allow the controller to communicate with the device.

## Overview

No device information is provided in the database. Consider [updating the database](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/427) to improve the documentation.

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the PSMZ0001 -:

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Switch | switch_binary | Switch | Switch | 
| Electric meter (watts) | meter_watts | Energy | Number | 
| Electric meter (kWh) | meter_kwh | Energy | Number | 

### Switch

Switch the power on and off.

The ```switch_binary``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Switch``` category.

### Electric meter (watts)

Indicates the instantaneous power consumption.

The ```meter_watts``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Energy``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

### Electric meter (kWh)

Indicates the energy consumption (kWh).

The ```meter_kwh``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Energy``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.



## Device Configuration

The device has no configuration parameters configured.

## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The PSMZ0001 supports 2 association groups.

### Group 1: Lifeline


This group supports 1 nodes.

### Group 2: SwitchInput


This group supports 5 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_BINARY_V1| Linked to BASIC|
| COMMAND_CLASS_METER_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_GRP_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_DEVICE_RESET_LOCALLY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ZWAVEPLUS_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_POWERLEVEL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_FIRMWARE_UPDATE_MD_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V1| |

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [contribute to the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/427).
