---
layout: documentation
title: 11-01-011 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# 11-01-011 Strips-MaZw
This describes the Z-Wave device *11-01-011*, manufactured by *Sensative AB* with the thing type UID of ```sensative_1101011_00_000```.

The device is in the category of Sensor, defining Device used to measure something.

# Overview


## Inclusion Information

- Set your controller in inclusion mode (see your controller’s manual).
- Follow the instruction for Wake up.
- A long LED blink indicates that the inclusion was successful.

## Exclusion Information

- Set your controller in exclusion mode (see your controller’s manual).
- Follow the instruction for Wake up.
- A long LED blink indicates that the exclusion was successful.

## Wakeup Information

Wake up Strips manually for Z-Wave communication.

- Place the round magnet at the rounded edge.
- When the LED blinks, move the magnet away.
- Repeat 3 times in total within 10 seconds.

It may be necessary to repeat this process several times to make changes take affect.

Note that wakeup period can only be set to a minimum period of 30 minutes.

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the 11-01-011

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Door Sensor | sensor_door | Door | Contact | 
| Tamper Alarm | alarm_tamper |  | Switch | 

### Door Sensor

The ```sensor_door``` channel supports the ```Contact``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Contact``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OPEN | Open |
| CLOSED | Closed |

### Tamper Alarm

The ```alarm_tamper``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OFF | Ok |
| ON | Alarm |



## Device Configuration

The following table provides a summary of the 2 configuration parameters available in the 11-01-011.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 1 | Notification type | Define the notification type. |
| 2 | LED indication | Specify if LED should indicate special event. |

### Parameter 1: Notification type

Define the notification type.

The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Binary Sensor report |
| 1 | Notification report |
| 2 | Basic report |

The manufacturer defined default value is 1 (Notification report).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_1_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 2: LED indication

Specify if LED should indicate special event.

The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Off |
| 1 | On |

The manufacturer defined default value is 1 (On).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_2_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The 11-01-011 supports 1 association group.

### Group 1: Lifeline


This group supports 1 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SENSOR_BINARY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ALARM_V3| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BATTERY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_WAKE_UP_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V1| |

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [edit the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/251).
