---
layout: documentation
title: BSL01 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# BSL01
This describes the Z-Wave device *BSL01*, manufactured by *Benetek* with the thing type UID of ```benetek_bsl01_00_000```.

The device is in the category of Lock, defining Devices whose primary pupose is locking something.

# Overview
BENETEK smart lock is night lock style with dead bolt, remote, key, RF card, keypad, Z-Wave.

Material: The lock was made of zinc alloy. The lock shell is 4mm thick. And the inside structure was made of metal. 304 stainless steel panel, the thickness of 1.5mm

Weight: 1800g,

Power supply method: Four AA alkaline batteries and one 18650 rechargeable backup battery.

Batteries lifetime: 2 groups of batteries, Rechargeable battery, Alkaline Batteries: Approximate 1 Year battery life (depend on the usage of the lock)

Features of the Latch: Lock Latch length > 25mm, Comply with GA/T73-94 5.16B standard. Latch size: 25x30x15mm, it is even stronger! Low battery indicator: Prompt indicator in low pressure and It will unlock automatically when no electricity(optional) Urgent method: Mechanical damage to unlock(It has mounting hole on the lock for mechanical lock) Working environment: -30~70℃ Humidity<90% Working current (MAX): <500mA Static current of battery: <95μA Wireless remote distance: 10m (Depend on environment) Z-Wave distance(to Z-Wave server): 30m indoor Appearance size: Lock body 152x80x40(mm) Panel: 125x50x25(mm) Voltage of entrance guard: DC 6V~30V Voltage of urgent power supply: DC 5V~6.5V (Optional) Capacity of remote: 25pcs Can expand Capacity of password: 13 sets capacity of card: 104pcs can expand Z-Wave frequency: 868.4 MHz - China/Europe, 908.4 MHz - USA, 921.4 MHz – Australia/New Zealand, 869.2 MHz - Russia

Smart Hidden Door Lock restores factory default automatically when the device is excluded. Please use this procedure only when the network primary controller is missing or otherwise inoperable.

## Inclusion Information
1. Ensure the SHDL is powered and the battery is fully charged.
2. Set the main controller into the Add device mode (see a main controller’s operating manual).
3. Triple click Z-Wave button on the Z-Wave module(inside lock body) within 1.5 seconds, the LED will flicker rapidly while inclusion process implement and light on 2 second after processing complete.

## Exclusion Information
1. Ensure the SHDL is powered and the battery is fully charged.
2. Set the main controller into the Remove device mode (see a main controller’s operating manual).
3. Triple click Z-Wave button on the Z-Wave module(inside lock body) within 1.5 seconds, the LED will flicker rapidly while exclusion process implement and light on 2 second after processing complete.

## Channels
The following table summarises the channels available for the BSL01

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Door Lock | lock_door | Door | Switch | 

### Door Lock
The ```lock_door``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category.



## Device Configuration
The following table provides a summary of the 0 configuration parameter available in the BSL01.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|

## Association Groups
Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The BSL01 supports 4 association groups.

### Group 1: Lifeline

This group supports 1 nodes.

### Group 2: Basic Set Off frame

This group supports 1 nodes.

### Group 3: Basic Set On frame

This group supports 1 nodes.

### Group 4: Basic Set Off frame

This group supports 1 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_APPLICATION_STATUS_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_GRP_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ZWAVEPLUS_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_DOOR_LOCK_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_POWERLEVEL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BATTERY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SECURITY_V1| |

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [edit the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/828).
