---
layout: documentation
title: PIR - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# PIR Z-Wave PIR Motion Sensor

This describes the Z-Wave device *PIR*, manufactured by *Ecolink* with the thing type UID of ```eco_pir1_00_000```. 

Z-Wave PIR Motion Sensor  


## Overview 

The sensor has two Association groups available for up to five Z-Wave Node IDs each.  
Association group one is intended for but not limited to controllers. All nodes whose Node ID  
that have been set in Association group one will receive all unsolicited Alarm Report frames,  
and Basic Report frames of 0x00 and 0xFF. Association group two is intended for any device

that is controllable with a Basic Set of 0xFF such as lights, sirens, or chimes.  
When a sensor such as a door or window sensor is opened/faulted, the sensor will send a Basic  
Report to nodes in Association group one and a Basic Set of 0xFF to Association group two.  
When the door or window is closed the sensor will send a Basic Report of 0x00 to only group  
one. The Configuration command class can configure the sensor to send Basic Sets of 0x00 to  
nodes in group two (turning devices off). See Configuration Command Class.

  


### Wakeup Information 

By default, a sensor is configured to send Wake Up Notification frames every three hours. A  
controller may change the duration between Wake Up Notification frames to be between one  
hour and one week in increments of two hundred seconds with the Wake Up Interval Set  
command. The sensor will send Wake Up Notification frames to the Node ID specified in the  
Wake Up Set Interval command or 255 if no valid nodes have been set.


## Channels
The following table summarises the channels available for the PIR Z-Wave PIR Motion Sensor.

| Channel | Channel Id | Channel Type UID | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|------------------|----------|-----------|
| Binary Sensor | sensor_door | sensor_door | Door | Contact |
| Alarm | alarm_general | alarm_general | Door | Switch |
|  | battery-level | system.battery-level |  |  |


### Device Configuration
The following table provides a summary of the configuration parameters available in the PIR Z-Wave PIR Motion Sensor.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found below.

| Parameter   | Description |
|-------------|-------------|
| 99: Toggle sending clear message to group 2 | Toggle sending clear message to group 2 |
| 1: Group 1 |  |
| 2: Group 2 |  |


#### 99: Toggle sending clear message to group 2

Toggle sending clear message to group 2  


##### Overview 

Set to 0 to disable sending a fault clear message (00) to group 2 when the device has cleared.

The Configuration command class can be utilized to enable Basic Sets of 0x00 on a fault  
restore to nodes in Group 2 with a Configuration Set command of Parameter number 0x63  
(decimal 99), a size of 1, and a Configuration value of 0xFF (decimal 255). Changing the  
configuration value to 0 disables the feature.


| Property         | Value    |
|------------------|----------|
| Configuration ID | config_99_1 |
| Data Type        | INTEGER || Default Value | 0 |
| Options | Disable sending clear message (0) |
|  | Send clear message to group 2 (1) |


#### 1: Group 1


| Property         | Value    |
|------------------|----------|
| Configuration ID | group_1 |
| Data Type        | TEXT |
| Range |  to  |


#### 2: Group 2


| Property         | Value    |
|------------------|----------|
| Configuration ID | group_2 |
| Data Type        | TEXT |
| Range |  to  |


---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can edit the database [here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/137).
