---
layout: documentation
title: 12727 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# 12727 GE 12727 Z-Wave Wireless Lighting Control Smart Toggle Switch

This describes the Z-Wave device *12727*, manufactured by *Jasco Products* with the thing type UID of ```ge_12727_00_000```. 

GE 12727 Z-Wave Wireless Lighting Control Smart Toggle Switch  


### Inclusion Information 

1. Follow the instructions for your Z-wave certified controller to include a device to the Z-wave network.

2. Once the controller is ready to include your device, press up and release the toggle switch to include it in the network.

Note: Your controller may need to be within 10 feet of the device to be included.

3. Once your controller has confirmed that the device has been included, refresh the Z-wave network to optimize performance.


## Channels
The following table summarises the channels available for the 12727 GE 12727 Z-Wave Wireless Lighting Control Smart Toggle Switch.

| Channel | Channel Id | Channel Type UID | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|------------------|----------|-----------|
| Switch | switch_binary | switch_binary | Switch | Switch |


### Device Configuration
The following table provides a summary of the configuration parameters available in the 12727 GE 12727 Z-Wave Wireless Lighting Control Smart Toggle Switch.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found below.

| Parameter   | Description |
|-------------|-------------|
| 4: Invert switch | Invert switch |
| 29: Load Sensing |  |


#### 4: Invert switch

Invert switch  


##### Overview 

If the switch is accidentally installed upside down with “On” at the bottom and “Off” at the top, the default On/Off rocker settings can be reversed by changing parameter 4’s value to “1”.


| Property         | Value    |
|------------------|----------|
| Configuration ID | config_4_1 |
| Data Type        | INTEGER || Default Value | 0 |
| Options | Normal switch install (0) |
|  | Inverted switch (1) |


#### 29: Load Sensing

  


##### Overview 

Load Sensing Load sensing is disabled when shipped from the factory. This feature can be enabled if desired. Setting parameter 29 to a value of 1 will enable the Load Sense function


| Property         | Value    |
|------------------|----------|
| Configuration ID | config_29_1 |
| Data Type        | INTEGER |
| Range | 0 to 1 |
| Default Value | 0 |


---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can edit the database [here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/259).
