---
layout: documentation
title: SCN04 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# SCN04 Four-key Scene Controller

This describes the Z-Wave device *SCN04*, manufactured by *Hank* with the thing type UID of ```hank_scn04_00_000```. 

Four-key Scene Controller  


## Overview 

Hank Z-Wave Scene Controller with 4 buttons. Supports security functions.

The Scene controller offers three button action types: short press, held down and release.  
  
\- If a button is pressed quickly (for less than a second), the scene controller sends a central scene notification command to association group 1. This message contains a scene number from 1-4 depending on which button is pressed. It also sends a basic set command to the items in the association group for the button (even groups numbered 2 to 8) and a multilevel set command to the nodes in the association group for the button with an uneven number (3 for button 1, 5 for button 2 etc.).  
\- If a button is pressed and held down for more than a second, the scene controller sends a central scene notification command to association group 1 as above. It also sends a multilevel start level change (i.e. dim up) command to the nodes in the association group for the button.  
\- If a button is released after it has been held down, the scene controller sends a similar central scene notification command as well as a multilevel stop command the buttons association group.

  


### Inclusion Information 

Included as **non-secure** device:  
1. Insert the LIR2450 battery.  
2. Set the Z-Wave network main controller into learning mode( see Z-Waave network controller operating manul).  
3. Triple click a button.  
4. If the inclusion is successful, the LED will blink in blue less than 5 seconds and then keep on for 15 seconds.

Included as a **secure** device:  
1. Insert the LIR2450 battery.  
2. Set the Z-Wave network main controller into learning mode( see Z-Wave network controller operating manual).  
3. Pressing and holding a button for 3 seconds.  
4. If the inclusion is successful, the LED will blink in green less than for 5 seconds and then keep on for 15 seconds.

  


### Exclusion Information 

1. Insert the LIR2450 battery.  
2. Set the Z-Wave network main controller into remove mode (see Z-Wave controller operating manual).  
3. Triple click the a button, if the exclusion is successful, LED will blink in orange for less than 5 seconds and then keep on for 3 seconds.

  


### Wakeup Information 

Press and hold any button for three seconds.


## Channels
The following table summarises the channels available for the SCN04 Four-key Scene Controller.

| Channel | Channel Id | Channel Type UID | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|------------------|----------|-----------|
| Scene Number | scene_number | scene_number |  | Number |
|  | battery-level | system.battery-level |  |  |


### Device Configuration
The following table provides a summary of the configuration parameters available in the SCN04 Four-key Scene Controller.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found below.

| Parameter   | Description |
|-------------|-------------|
| 254: Enable configuration | Lock/unlock all configuration parameters. |
| 1: Central notification | Scene commands and battery reports |
| 2: Basic commands button 1 | Send basic commands for button 1 |
| 3: Multilevel button 1 | Send multilevel commands for button 1 |
| 4: Basic commands button 2 | Send basic commands for button 2 |
| 5: Multilevel button 2 | Send multilevel commands for button 2 |
| 6: Basic commands button 3 | Send basic commands for button 3 |
| 7: Multilevel button 3 | Send multilevel commands for button 3 |
| 8: Basic commands button 4 | Send basic commands for button 4 |
| 9: Multilevel button 4 | Send multilevel commands for button 4 |


#### 254: Enable configuration

Lock/unlock all configuration parameters.  


##### Overview 

Lock/unlock configuration of unit.

0 = Unlock (default)  
1 = Lock


| Property         | Value    |
|------------------|----------|
| Configuration ID | config_254_1 |
| Data Type        | INTEGER || Default Value | 0 |
| Options | Unlock (0) |
|  | Lock (1) |


#### 1: Central notification

Scene commands and battery reports  


##### Overview 

Scene Controller will send the central scene notification command and battery report command to the associated nodes if any button is triggered.

Button 1-4 sends scene commands 1-4. I.e. button 1 sends scene 1, button 2 scene 2 etc. More info about all association group commands can be seen from the table below.

**Button ID** **Group ID** **Action & Notification** Any button 1 Press: Central scene notification ( Key Attributes=0 )  
Hold: Central scene notification ( Key Attributes=2 )  
Release: Central scene notification ( Key attributes=1 ) Button 1 2 Press: Basic Set  
Hold: Reserve  
Release: Reserve 3 Press: Switch multilevel set  
Hold: Multilevel start level change  
Release: Multilevel stop level change Button 2 4 Press: Basic Set  
Hold: Reserve  
Release: Reserve 5 Press: Switch multilevel set  
Hold: Multilevel start level change  
Release: Multilevel stop level change Button 3 6 Press: Basic Set  
Hold: Reserve  
Release: Reserve 7 Press: Switch multilevel set  
Hold: Multilevel start level change  
Release: Multilevel stop level change Button 4 8 Press: Basic Set  
Hold: Reserve  
Release: Reserve 9 Press: Switch multilevel set  
Hold: Multilevel start level change  
Release: Multilevel stop level change


| Property         | Value    |
|------------------|----------|
| Configuration ID | group_1 |
| Data Type        | TEXT |
| Range |  to  |


#### 2: Basic commands button 1

Send basic commands for button 1  


##### Overview 

Scene Controller will send Basic Set command to the associated nodes if button 1 is pressed.


| Property         | Value    |
|------------------|----------|
| Configuration ID | group_2 |
| Data Type        | TEXT |
| Range |  to  |


#### 3: Multilevel button 1

Send multilevel commands for button 1  


##### Overview 

Scene Controller will send switch multilevel set, the multilevel start level change and multilevel stop level change command to the associated nodes if button 1 is pressed, hold and released, respectively.


| Property         | Value    |
|------------------|----------|
| Configuration ID | group_3 |
| Data Type        | TEXT |
| Range |  to  |


#### 4: Basic commands button 2

Send basic commands for button 2  


##### Overview 

Scene Controller will send Basic Set command to the associated nodes if button 2 is pressed.


| Property         | Value    |
|------------------|----------|
| Configuration ID | group_4 |
| Data Type        | TEXT |
| Range |  to  |


#### 5: Multilevel button 2

Send multilevel commands for button 2  


##### Overview 

Scene Controller will send switch multilevel set, the multilevel start level change and multilevel stop level change command to the associated nodes if button 2 is pressed, hold and released, respectively.


| Property         | Value    |
|------------------|----------|
| Configuration ID | group_5 |
| Data Type        | TEXT |
| Range |  to  |


#### 6: Basic commands button 3

Send basic commands for button 3  


##### Overview 

Scene Controller will send Basic Set command to the associated nodes if button 3 is pressed.


| Property         | Value    |
|------------------|----------|
| Configuration ID | group_6 |
| Data Type        | TEXT |
| Range |  to  |


#### 7: Multilevel button 3

Send multilevel commands for button 3  


##### Overview 

Scene Controller will send switch multilevel set, the multilevel start level change and multilevel stop level change command to the associated nodes if button 3 is pressed, hold and released, respectively.


| Property         | Value    |
|------------------|----------|
| Configuration ID | group_7 |
| Data Type        | TEXT |
| Range |  to  |


#### 8: Basic commands button 4

Send basic commands for button 4  


##### Overview 

Scene Controller will send Basic Set command to the associated nodes if button 4 is pressed.


| Property         | Value    |
|------------------|----------|
| Configuration ID | group_8 |
| Data Type        | TEXT |
| Range |  to  |


#### 9: Multilevel button 4

Send multilevel commands for button 4  


##### Overview 

Scene Controller will send switch multilevel set, the multilevel start level change and multilevel stop level change command to the associated nodes if button 4 is pressed, hold and released, respectively.


| Property         | Value    |
|------------------|----------|
| Configuration ID | group_9 |
| Data Type        | TEXT |
| Range |  to  |


---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can edit the database [here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/697).
