---
layout: documentation
title: Duewi ZW-ZS-3500 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# Duewi ZW-ZS-3500 Schuko Plug Switch

This describes the Z-Wave device *Duewi ZW-ZS-3500*, manufactured by *Reitz-Group.de* with the thing type UID of ```reitz_duw064374_00_000```. 

Schuko Plug Switch  


## Overview 

The Duwi 64374 is a switch plug that can be placed between a wall outlet for Schuko Plug and electric devices, plugged in by cord. It can switch all loads up to 3500 W. The device is IP 20 rated and can therefore only be used in dry environments. Switching is controlled wirelessly using Z-Wave or locally applying a button. A three color LED indicates the switching status. Unplugging and replugging the module will reset the module to normal state.

  


### Inclusion Information 

On factory default the device does not belong to any Z-Wave network. The device needs to join an existing wireless network to communicate with the devices of this network. This process is called Inclusion. Devices can also leave a network. This process is called Exclusion. Both processes are initiated by the primary controller of the Z-Wave network. This controller will be turned into exclusion respective inclusion mode. Please refer to your primary controllers manual on how to turn your controller into inclusion or exclusion mode. Only if the primary controller is in inclusion or exclusion mode, this device can join or leave the network. Leaving the network - i.e. being excluded - sets the device back to factory default. If the device already belongs to a network, follow the exclusion process before including it in your network. Otherwise inclusion of this device will fail. If the controller being included was a primary controller, it has to be reset first.

**Inclusion and Exclusion are confirmed by a tripple click of the button of the device. **

  


### Exclusion Information 

On factory default the device does not belong to any Z-Wave network. The device needs to join an existing wireless network to communicate with the devices of this network. This process is called Inclusion. Devices can also leave a network. This process is called Exclusion. Both processes are initiated by the primary controller of the Z-Wave network. This controller will be turned into exclusion respective inclusion mode. Please refer to your primary controllers manual on how to turn your controller into inclusion or exclusion mode. Only if the primary controller is in inclusion or exclusion mode, this device can join or leave the network. Leaving the network - i.e. being excluded - sets the device back to factory default. If the device already belongs to a network, follow the exclusion process before including it in your network. Otherwise inclusion of this device will fail. If the controller being included was a primary controller, it has to be reset first.

**Inclusion and Exclusion are confirmed by a tripple click of the button of the device. **


## Channels
The following table summarises the channels available for the Duewi ZW-ZS-3500 Schuko Plug Switch.

| Channel | Channel Id | Channel Type UID | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|------------------|----------|-----------|
| Switch | switch_binary | switch_binary | Switch | Switch |


### Device Configuration
The following table provides a summary of the configuration parameters available in the Duewi ZW-ZS-3500 Schuko Plug Switch.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found below.

| Parameter   | Description |
|-------------|-------------|


---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can edit the database [here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/623).
