---
layout: documentation
title: MT-100 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# MT-100 Motion and Light Mini Sensor

This describes the Z-Wave device *MT-100*, manufactured by *Vemmio* with the thing type UID of ```vemmio_mt100_00_000```. 

Motion and Light Mini Sensor  


## Overview 

Motion Mini Sensor provides accurate motion and illumination level detection. When integrated with your controller - wireless notifications, low battery alerts, custom automation scenarios based on both light and motion triggers become available. For example, when motion is detected, the controller will send an alert to any smartphone, set off an alarm or trigger a lighting scene. The sensor works with any Z-Wave-certified controller 

Wireless standard Z-Wave Plus Frequency 868.40 MHz Network range 30 m line of sight Operating temperature 0°C ~ 40°C Illumination measurement range 0 ~ 8500 lux Movement Sensor Measurement range 6 m Battery CR123A 3V Battery >2 years, low power indication.

Factory reset: press and hold the Z-Wave button for at least 10 seconds until the LED indicator flashes once (it may then flash 5 times to indicate the device is no longer part of Z-Wave network). Release the button.

  


### Inclusion Information 

When prompted by the controller, press quickly one of the Z-wave button 3 times in a row. The sensor should be included in 5 seconds. The sensor should appear on your controller’s device list.

  


### Exclusion Information 

When prompted by the controller, press quickly one of the Z-wave button 3 times in a row. The sensor should be excluded in 5 seconds. The sensor should appear on your controller’s device list.

  


### Wakeup Information 

You can press the button once to wake up the device and send wakeup notification to controller -the LED will flash once.


## Channels
The following table summarises the channels available for the MT-100 Motion and Light Mini Sensor.

| Channel | Channel Id | Channel Type UID | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|------------------|----------|-----------|
| Binary Sensor | sensor_binary | sensor_binary | Door | Switch |
| Sensor (luminance) | sensor_luminance | sensor_luminance | Temperature | Number |
| Alarm (burglar) | alarm_burglar | alarm_burglar | Door | Switch |
|  | battery-level | system.battery-level |  |  |


### Device Configuration
The following table provides a summary of the configuration parameters available in the MT-100 Motion and Light Mini Sensor.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found below.

| Parameter   | Description |
|-------------|-------------|
| 1: Sensitivity Level Setting | This parameter defines the sensitivity of PIR detector |
| 2: On/Off Duration | how long the associated devices should stay ON status |
| 3: Basic Set Level | value when PIR detector is triggered and Basic Set command sent |
| 4: PIR Detecting Function Enabled/Disabled | enabled or disabled the PIR |
| 5: Ambient illumination Lux Level | Set a lux level value which determines when the light sensor is activated |
| 6: Retrigger Interval Setting | Interval of being re-triggered after the PIR detector has been triggered. |
| 7: Light Sensor Polling Interva Time | Set the light sensor measure ambient illumination level interval time |
| 8: Lux Level Function Enable |  |
| 9: Ambient illumination Lux Level Report |  |
| 10: Led Flash Enable | This parameter defines the Led on/off enable |
| 1: GROUP 1 | lifeline service that assigned to Motion detector status |
| 2: GROUP 2 | allows for sending control commands to associated devices |
| 3: GROUP 3 | allows for Send Notification to associated devices |
| 4: GROUP 4 | allows for Send Sensor Binary Report to associated devices |


#### 1: Sensitivity Level Setting

This parameter defines the sensitivity of PIR detector  


##### Overview 

This parameter defines the sensitivity of PIR detector, it is recommended to test the detector with movements from a farthest end of the coverage area at first time of use. If movements cannot be detected sensitively, simply adjust the sensitivity level with this parameter.

This Parameter can be configured with the value of 8 through 255, where 8 means high sensitivity and 255 means lowest sensitivity.


| Property         | Value    |
|------------------|----------|
| Configuration ID | config_1_1 |
| Data Type        | INTEGER |
| Range | 8 to 255 |
| Default Value | 12 |


#### 2: On/Off Duration

how long the associated devices should stay ON status  


##### Overview 

This parameter can be determined how long the associated devices should stay ON status. For instance, this parameter is set to 30(second), the PIR detector will send a BASIC\_SET Command to an associated device with value basic set level if PIR detector is triggered and the associated device will be turned on 30(second) before it is turned off. This Parameter value must be large than Parameter 6\#. If user set this parameter to default by Configure CC, the parameter \#6 will be set to default value


| Property         | Value    |
|------------------|----------|
| Configuration ID | config_2_2 |
| Data Type        | INTEGER |
| Range | 5 to 600 |
| Default Value | 30 |


#### 3: Basic Set Level

value when PIR detector is triggered and Basic Set command sent  


##### Overview 

Valid Values: (0 – 99) 

0 – OFF , 255 - ON 

Basic Set Command will be sent where contains a value when PIR detector is triggered, the receiver will take it for consideration; for instance, if a lamp module is received the Basic Set Command of which value is decisive as to how bright of dim level of lamp module shall be. This Parameter is used to some associated devices


| Property         | Value    |
|------------------|----------|
| Configuration ID | config_3_1 |
| Data Type        | INTEGER |
| Range | 0 to 99 || Default Value | 255 |
| Options | OFF (255) |


#### 4: PIR Detecting Function Enabled/Disabled

enabled or disabled the PIR  


##### Overview 

Valid Values: 0 – Disable PIR, 255 – Enable PIR

This parameter can be enabled or disabled the PIR detector detecting function.


| Property         | Value    |
|------------------|----------|
| Configuration ID | config_4_1 |
| Data Type        | INTEGER || Default Value | 255 |
| Options | Disable PIR (0) |
|  | Enable PIR (255) |


#### 5: Ambient illumination Lux Level

Set a lux level value which determines when the light sensor is activated  


##### Overview 

This parameter can be set a lux level value which determines when the light sensor is activated. If the ambient illumination level falls below this value and a person moves across or within the detected area , PIR detector will send a Z-Wave ON command(i.e. BASIC\_SET (value = parameter 3) to an associated device and activate i


| Property         | Value    |
|------------------|----------|
| Configuration ID | config_5_2 |
| Data Type        | INTEGER |
| Range | 0 to 1000 |
| Default Value | 100 |


#### 6: Retrigger Interval Setting

Interval of being re-triggered after the PIR detector has been triggered.  


##### Overview 

This Parameter can be used to adjust the interval of being re-triggered after the PIR detector has been triggered.

This Parameter value must be less than Parameter 2\#. If user set this parameter to default by Configure CC, the para


| Property         | Value    |
|------------------|----------|
| Configuration ID | config_6_1 |
| Data Type        | INTEGER |
| Range | 0 to 8 |
| Default Value | 8 |


#### 7: Light Sensor Polling Interva Time

Set the light sensor measure ambient illumination level interval time  


##### Overview 

This Parameter can be set the light sensor measure ambient illumination level

interval time. NOTE: This Value Must Be less than Wakeup Interval Time


| Property         | Value    |
|------------------|----------|
| Configuration ID | config_7_2 |
| Data Type        | INTEGER |
| Range | 60 to 36000 |
| Default Value | 180 |


#### 8: Lux Level Function Enable

  


##### Overview 

If this parameter is set to ‘1’, and when Lux level less than the value define by parameter \#5, PIR detector will send a BASIC\_SET command frame (i.e. BASIC\_SET (value = parameter 3) to an associated device and activate it. If Lux Level greater than the value define by parameter \#5, PIR detector will not send a BASIC\_SET command frame.


| Property         | Value    |
|------------------|----------|
| Configuration ID | config_8_1 |
| Data Type        | INTEGER |
| Range | 0 to 1 |
| Default Value | 0 |


#### 9: Ambient illumination Lux Level Report

  


##### Overview 

This parameter defines by how much Lux Level must change, in lux, to be reported to the main controller.


| Property         | Value    |
|------------------|----------|
| Configuration ID | config_9_2 |
| Data Type        | INTEGER |
| Range | 0 to 255 |
| Default Value | 100 |


#### 10: Led Flash Enable

This parameter defines the Led on/off enable  


##### Overview 

This parameter defines the Led on/off enable. If this parameter is set to ‘1’, the led blink will be enabled, the led will flash once when motion sensor detect a movement. Otherwise, the led will be turned off always.


| Property         | Value    |
|------------------|----------|
| Configuration ID | config_10_1 |
| Data Type        | INTEGER |
| Range | 0 to 1 |
| Default Value | 1 |


#### 1: GROUP 1

lifeline service that assigned to Motion detector status  


##### Overview 

GROUP 1 is lifeline service that assigned to Sensor (Motion detector) status – Open/Close. It enables the sensor to send reports and readings to Z-Wave Controller or ZWave Gateway whenever the sensor is triggered. This Group Supports:

 *  NOTIFICATION\_REPORT\_V4
 *  SENSOR\_BINARY\_REPORT\_V2
 *  SENSOR\_MULTILEVEL\_REPORT\_V7
 *  BATTERY\_REPORT DEVICE\_RESET\_LOCALLY\_NOTIFICATION


| Property         | Value    |
|------------------|----------|
| Configuration ID | group_1 |
| Data Type        | TEXT |
| Range |  to  |


#### 2: GROUP 2

allows for sending control commands to associated devices  


##### Overview 

GROUP 2 allows for sending control commands to associated devices such as relay module, lighting, etc. This association group is configured through the advanced parameters no. 2, 3, 5 and 8. This Group Supports:

 *   BASIC\_SET


| Property         | Value    |
|------------------|----------|
| Configuration ID | group_2 |
| Data Type        | TEXT |
| Range |  to  |


#### 3: GROUP 3

allows for Send Notification to associated devices  


##### Overview 

GROUP 3 allows for Send Notification to associated devices in this group. This Group Supports:

 *  NOTIFICATION\_REPORT\_V4


| Property         | Value    |
|------------------|----------|
| Configuration ID | group_3 |
| Data Type        | TEXT |
| Range |  to  |


#### 4: GROUP 4

allows for Send Sensor Binary Report to associated devices  


##### Overview 

ROUP 4 allows for Send Sensor Binary Report to associated devices in this group. This Group Supports:

 *  SENSOR\_BINARY\_REPORT\_V2


| Property         | Value    |
|------------------|----------|
| Configuration ID | group_4 |
| Data Type        | TEXT |
| Range |  to  |


---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can edit the database [here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/760).
