---
layout: documentation
title: ZS5101 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# ZS5101 Shock Sensor

This describes the Z-Wave device *ZS5101*, manufactured by *Vision Security* with the thing type UID of ```vision_zs5101_00_000```. 

Shock Sensor  


## Overview 

ZS5101 detects the vibrations made by an intruder trying to break a window or door, and also detect tamper situations, it will send Z-Wave signal when vibrations or tamper situations are detected. 

  


### Inclusion Information 

For "Inclusion" in (adding to) a network: Put the Z-Wave Interface Controller into "inclusion" mode, and following its instruction to add the ZS5101 to your controller.  To get in the "inclusion" mode, the distance between sensor and controller is suggested to be in one meter.  Press the program/tamper switch of ZS5101 for 1 second at least to be included. The LED on the ZS5101 should go off, if not, please try again

  


### Exclusion Information 

For "Exclusion" from (removing from) a network: Put the Z-Wave Interface Controller into "exclusion" mode, and following its instruction to delete the ZS5101 from your controller.  Press the program/tamper switch of ZS5101 for 1 second at least to be excluded.  

  


### Wakeup Information 

"Awake" mode: it is to leave the "Sleep" mode by removing the cover of ZS5101, to allow the Z-Wave Interface Controller to do "Inclusion", "Exclusion", "Association" and to reply and receive the commands from controller. 


## Channels
The following table summarises the channels available for the ZS5101 Shock Sensor.

| Channel | Channel Id | Channel Type UID | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|------------------|----------|-----------|
| Binary Sensor | sensor_binary | sensor_binary | Door | Switch |
| Shock Alarm | alarm_access | alarm_access | Door | Switch |
| Tamper Alarm | alarm_tamper | alarm_tamper |  | Switch |
|  | battery-level | system.battery-level |  |  |


### Device Configuration
The following table provides a summary of the configuration parameters available in the ZS5101 Shock Sensor.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found below.

| Parameter   | Description |
|-------------|-------------|
| 1: Lifeline |  |


#### 1: Lifeline


| Property         | Value    |
|------------------|----------|
| Configuration ID | group_1 |
| Data Type        | TEXT |
| Range |  to  |


---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can edit the database [here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/442).
