---
layout: documentation
title: ZP3102 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# ZP3102 Motion/Temperature Sensor

This describes the Z-Wave device *ZP3102*, manufactured by *Vision Security* with the thing type UID of ```vision_zp3102_08_000```. 

Motion/Temperature Sensor  


## Overview 

The ZP3102 is a Z-Wave enabled motion detector and temperature sensor. The motion detector has 120 degrees of horizontal visibility and 60 degrees of vertical visibility. The temperature sensor that is built in to the ZP3102 is capable of reporting in both Celsius and Fahrenheit scales, and may be queried for the temperature and it will report it automatically when it detects changes. The sensor is battery operated and includes the ability to report the battery level and will transmit an alert signal if the battery assumes a critically low level. The ZP3102 is future-proofed by also supporting the ability to have its firmware updated over the Z-Wave network.

  


### Inclusion Information 

Put the Z-Wave Interface Controller into 'inclusion' mode, and follow its instructions to add the ZP3102 to your Z-Wave network. For a successful inclusion, it is suggested to have the sensor and your Z-Wave controller about one meter apart.  Press the Program Switch of the ZP3102 (refer to the manual for the location of the program switch) ready the ZP3102 for inclusion into the Z-Wave network.  If inclusion does not take place or is unsuccessful within 20 seconds, the ZP3102 will go to sleep; if this happens, simply repeat pressing the program switch to try again. 

  


### Exclusion Information 

Put the Z-Wave Interface Controller into “exclusion” mode, and following its instruction to delete the ZP3102 to your Z-Wave network.  Press the Program Switch of ZP3102 once to be excluded. The LED on the ZP3102 should start to flash. 

  


### Wakeup Information 

Remove the rear cover to wake up the device, or set the wake up interval time from 10 minutes to 1 week.  The battery will be drained quickly if you fail to replace the cover after using that method to wake up the device.


## Channels
The following table summarises the channels available for the ZP3102 Motion/Temperature Sensor.

| Channel | Channel Id | Channel Type UID | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|------------------|----------|-----------|
| Binary Sensor | sensor_binary | sensor_binary | Door | Switch |
| Sensor (temperature) | sensor_temperature | sensor_temperature | Temperature | Number |
| Alarm (burglar) | alarm_burglar | alarm_burglar | Door | Switch |
|  | battery-level | system.battery-level |  |  |


### Sensor (temperature)

#### Scale

Select the scale for temperature readings


| Property         | Value    |
|------------------|----------|
| Configuration ID | config_scale |
| Data Type        | TEXT || Default Value | 0 |
| Options | Celsius (0) |
|  | Fahrenheit (1) |


### Device Configuration
The following table provides a summary of the configuration parameters available in the ZP3102 Motion/Temperature Sensor.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found below.

| Parameter   | Description |
|-------------|-------------|
| 1: On time in minutes | Delay before sending OFF |
| 2: Celsius / Fahrenheit | 0 = Celsius, 1 = Fahrenheit |
| 3: Infrared sensor sensitivity adjustment | 1 is most sensitive, 7 is least |
| 1: Control Command |  |


#### 1: On time in minutes

Delay before sending OFF


| Property         | Value    |
|------------------|----------|
| Configuration ID | config_1_1 |
| Data Type        | INTEGER |
| Range | 1 to 255 |
| Default Value | 3 |


#### 2: Celsius / Fahrenheit

0 = Celsius, 1 = Fahrenheit


| Property         | Value    |
|------------------|----------|
| Configuration ID | config_2_1 |
| Data Type        | INTEGER || Default Value | 0 |
| Options | Celsius (0) |
|  | Fahrenheit (1) |


#### 3: Infrared sensor sensitivity adjustment

1 is most sensitive, 7 is least  


##### Overview 

(Parameter 3) Infrared sensor sensitivity adjustment, 7 levels sensitivity, 1 = most  
sensitive, 7 = most insensitive, default values= 4


| Property         | Value    |
|------------------|----------|
| Configuration ID | config_3_1 |
| Data Type        | INTEGER |
| Range | 1 to 7 |
| Default Value | 4 |


#### 1: Control Command


| Property         | Value    |
|------------------|----------|
| Configuration ID | group_1 |
| Data Type        | TEXT |
| Range |  to  |


---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can edit the database [here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/437).
