---
layout: documentation
title: ZM1702 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# ZM1702 Door Lock with Handle

This describes the Z-Wave device *ZM1702*, manufactured by *Vision Security* with the thing type UID of ```vision_zm1702_00_000```. 

Door Lock with Handle  


## Overview 

The ZM1702 is a Z-Wave controllable, single dead bolt lock. The mechanics can be adopted to right or left opening doors. The door lock can be applied for doors from a thickness of 38 mm and up. The door can be locked and unlocked using the inner side turn piece and/or the key pad. The wireless control allows to lock/unlock the lock, set/unset up to 15 different key codes (4 - 8 key long) and to limit the validity of certain key code.

  


### Inclusion Information 

Press Keypads 'C', '8', '8', '8' and manually turn the door lock from inside to be included.

  


### Exclusion Information 

Press Keypads 'C', '8', '8', '8' and manually turn the door lock from inside to be excluded.


## Channels
The following table summarises the channels available for the ZM1702 Door Lock with Handle.

| Channel | Channel Id | Channel Type UID | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|------------------|----------|-----------|
| Door Lock | lock_door | lock_door | Door | Switch |
|  | battery-level | system.battery-level |  |  |
| Entry Alarm | alarm_entry | alarm_entry | Door | Switch |


### Device Configuration
The following table provides a summary of the configuration parameters available in the ZM1702 Door Lock with Handle.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found below.

| Parameter   | Description |
|-------------|-------------|
| 1: Report | Target for Door Lock Operation Report commands |


#### 1: Report

Target for Door Lock Operation Report commands  


##### Overview 

Support one group (5 nodes). ZM1702 will report back every time lock and unlock status. 


| Property         | Value    |
|------------------|----------|
| Configuration ID | group_1 |
| Data Type        | TEXT |
| Range |  to  |


---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can edit the database [here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/411).
