---
layout: documentation
title: ZD2105 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# ZD2105 Recessed Door Window Sensor

This describes the Z-Wave device *ZD2105*, manufactured by *Vision Security* with the thing type UID of ```vision_zd2105_00_000```. 

Recessed Door Window Sensor  


## Overview 

https://fccid.io/KFR-ZD2105US-5

or 

http://www.monoprice.com/product?p\_id=15268

  


### Inclusion Information 

For “Inclusion” in (adding to) a network: Put the Z-WaveTM Interface Controller into “inclusion” mode, and following its instruction to add the ZD2105 to your controller. To get in the “inclusion” mode, please press the Program Switch of ZD2105 for sending the NIF. After sending NIF, Z-Wave will send the auto inclusion; otherwise, ZD2105 will go to sleep after 20 seconds

  


### Exclusion Information 

For “Exclusion” from (removing from) a network: Put the Z-WaveTM Interface Controller into “exclusion” mode, and following its instruction to delete the ZD2105 from your controller. Press the Program Switch of ZD2105 for 1 second at least to be excluded.

Note: All user and network settings will be cleared and the device reset to factory

  


### Wakeup Information 

Awake Mode:

It will be triggering after opening the cover, also the red LED will keep on lasting 10 seconds and ZD2105 will send “Wake Up Notification” after 10 seconds. If ZD2105 received “Wake Up No More Information” command then the red LED will go off or it will wait 10 seconds then go off. It will proceed all the commands after sending the “Wake Up Notification”


## Channels
The following table summarises the channels available for the ZD2105 Recessed Door Window Sensor.

| Channel | Channel Id | Channel Type UID | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|------------------|----------|-----------|
| Door status | sensor_door | sensor_door | Door | Contact |
| Alarm (burglar) | alarm_burglar | alarm_burglar | Door | Switch |
| Alarm (access) | alarm_access | alarm_access | Door | Switch |
|  | battery-level | system.battery-level |  |  |


### Device Configuration
The following table provides a summary of the configuration parameters available in the ZD2105 Recessed Door Window Sensor.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found below.

| Parameter   | Description |
|-------------|-------------|
| 1: External switch | Determines if external switch can be used. |
| 1: Control Command |  |


#### 1: External switch

Determines if external switch can be used.


| Property         | Value    |
|------------------|----------|
| Configuration ID | config_1_1 |
| Data Type        | INTEGER || Default Value | 0 |
| Options | Disabled (0) |
|  | Enabled (255) |


#### 1: Control Command


| Property         | Value    |
|------------------|----------|
| Configuration ID | group_1 |
| Data Type        | TEXT |
| Range |  to  |


---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can edit the database [here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/420).
