---
layout: documentation
title: ZW ESJ 300 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# ZW ESJ 300 Duwi ZW ESJ 300 Blind Control
This describes the Z-Wave device *ZW ESJ 300*, manufactured by *Reitz-Group.de* with the thing type UID of ```reitz_zwesj300_00_000```.

The ZW ESJ 300 does not permanently listen for messages sent from the controller - it will periodically wake up automatically to check if the controller has messages to send, but will sleep most of the time to conserve battery life. The wakeup period can be configured in the user interface - it is advisable not to make this too short as it will impact battery life - a reasonable compromise is 1 hour. The wakeup period does not impact the devices ability to report events or sensor data. The device can be manually woken with a button press on the device as described below - note that triggering a device to send an event is not the same as a wakeup notification, and this will not allow the controller to communicate with the device.

## Overview

No device information is provided in the database. Consider [updating the database](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/563) to improve the documentation.

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the ZW ESJ 300 -:

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Switch | switch_binary | Switch | Switch | 
| Blinds Control | blinds_control | Blinds | Rollershutter | 

### Switch

Switch the power on and off.

The ```switch_binary``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Switch``` category.

### Blinds Control

Provides start / stop control of blinds.

The ```blinds_control``` channel supports the ```Rollershutter``` item and is in the ```Blinds``` category.



## Device Configuration

The following table provides a summary of the 2 configuration parameters available in the ZW ESJ 300.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 0 | Running time | Adjustment of the operating times of the sun blind control |
| 1 | Stop-functionality | Adjusting the Stop-Functionality |
|  | Switch All Mode | Set the mode for the switch when receiving SWITCH ALL commands |

### Parameter 0: Running time

Adjustment of the operating times of the sun blind control
**NOTE**: The set values remain stored even after a power failure. The adjustment process of the operating times can be repeated anytime.  
**NOTE**: Should the adjustment of the operating times take place with the help of the configuration tool of a third-party manufacturer, you can consider the following values as the basis: Please note that the adjustments should be undertaken only by well-versed technicians.

0x00 = nointerruption/permanent operation

0x01-0x7F = 1 second to 127 seconds in 1-second steps

0x80-0xFE = 130 seconds (0x80) to 1390 seconds (0xFE) in 10 second-steps

0xFF = factory settings 120 seconds
Values in the range 0 to 255 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```0```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_0_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 1: Stop-functionality

Adjusting the Stop-Functionality
5.2.2 ADJUSTING THE STOP-FUNCTIONALITY:

You can also programm the shutter actuator in a way, that in case of a press in the apposite direction, the shutter won‘t stop, but continue directly in the opposite way (Z-Wave conform). Please proceed as follows:

- Hold the “UP” and “DOWN” button of the shutter actuator simulaneausly for 5 seconds. Please note, that the devise nust not be included in the network!
- Alternatively by configuration command (only for adviced users): Set the configuration value “1” to the value “0” in or- der to disable the stop-functionality.
  
  In order to enable the stop-functionality, please proceed as follows:
- Hold the “UP” and “DOWN” button of the shutter actuator simulaneausly for 5 seconds. Please note, that the devise
  
  nust not be included in the network!
- Alternatively by configuration command (only for adviced users): Set the configuration value “1” to the value “1” in order
  
  to enable the stop-functionality.
The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Disabled |
| 1 | Enabled (default) |

The manufacturer defined default value is ```1``` (Enabled (default)).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_1_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.

### Switch All Mode

Set the mode for the switch when receiving SWITCH ALL commands.

The following option values may be configured -:
| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Exclude from All On and All Off groups |
| 1 | Include in All On group |
| 2 | Include in All Off group |
| 255 | Include in All On and All Off groups |

This parameter has the configuration ID ```switchall_mode``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The device does not support associations.
## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_BINARY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_MULTILEVEL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_ALL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_PROTECTION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_HAIL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_INDICATOR_V1| |

### Documentation Links

* [User Manual](https://www.cd-jackson.com/zwave_device_uploads/563/DUW-blind.pdf)

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [contribute to the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/563).
