---
layout: documentation
title: PAN11 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# PAN11 Smart Energy Plug-in Switch
This describes the Z-Wave device *PAN11*, manufactured by *Devolo* with the thing type UID of ```devolo_pan11_00_000```.

The PAN11 supports routing. This allows the device to communicate using other routing enabled devices as intermediate routers.  This device is also able to participate in the routing of data from other devices.

## Overview

No device information is provided in the database. Consider [updating the database](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/509) to improve the documentation.

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the PAN11 -:

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Switch | switch_binary | Switch | Switch | 
| Electric meter (watts) | meter_watts | Energy | Number | 
| Electric meter (power factor) | meter_powerfactor | Energy | Number | 
| Electric meter (amps) | meter_current | Energy | Number | 
| Electric meter (kWh) | meter_kwh | Energy | Number | 
| Electric meter (volts) | meter_voltage | Energy | Number | 

### Switch

Switch the power on and off.

The ```switch_binary``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Switch``` category.

### Electric meter (watts)

Indicates the instantaneous power consumption.

The ```meter_watts``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Energy``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

### Electric meter (power factor)

Indicates the instantaneous power factor.

The ```meter_powerfactor``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Energy``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

### Electric meter (amps)

Indicates the instantaneous current consumption.

The ```meter_current``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Energy``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

### Electric meter (kWh)

Indicates the energy consumption (kWh).

The ```meter_kwh``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Energy``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

### Electric meter (volts)

Indicates the instantaneous voltage.

The ```meter_voltage``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Energy``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.



## Device Configuration

The device has no configuration parameters configured.

## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The device does not support associations.
## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_BINARY_V1| Linked to BASIC|
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_ALL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_METER_V3| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V1| |

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [contribute to the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/509).
