---
layout: documentation
title: MH10 PM2.5 WA - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# MH10 PM2.5 WA PM2.5 Monitor
This describes the Z-Wave device *MH10 PM2.5 WA*, manufactured by *[McoHome Technology Co., Ltd](http://www.mcohome.com/)* with the thing type UID of ```mcohome_mh10pm25_00_000```.

# Overview

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the MH10 PM2.5 WA

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Sensor (temperature) | sensor_temperature | Temperature | Number | 
| Particulate Sensor | sensor_particulate |  | Number | 
| Sensor (relative humidity) | sensor_relhumidity | Humidity | Number | 

### Sensor (temperature)

Indicates the current temperature

The ```sensor_temperature``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Temperature``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

### Particulate Sensor

Indicates the level of particulate matter

The ```sensor_particulate``` channel supports the ```Number``` item. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

### Sensor (relative humidity)

Indicates the current relative humidity

The ```sensor_relhumidity``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Humidity``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.



## Device Configuration

The device has no configuration parameters configured.

## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The MH10 PM2.5 WA supports 1 association group.

### Group 1: Gateway

Report to this the associated device(gateway)when detected data change
This group supports 5 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SENSOR_MULTILEVEL_V5| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V1| |

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [edit the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/716).
