---
layout: documentation
title: MH10-PM2.5-WA - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# MH10-PM2.5-WA PM2.5 Monitor
This describes the Z-Wave device *MH10-PM2.5-WA*, manufactured by *McoHome Technology Co., Ltd* with the thing type UID of ```mcohome_mh10pm25wa_00_000```.

The device is in the category of Sensor, defining Device used to measure something.

# Overview

## Channels
The following table summarises the channels available for the MH10-PM2.5-WA

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Sensor (relative humidity) | sensor_relhumidity | Humidity | Number | 
| Sensor (particulate) | sensor_particulate |  | Number | 
| Sensor (temperature) | sensor_temperature | Temperature | Number | 

### Sensor (relative humidity)
The ```sensor_relhumidity``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Humidity``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

### Sensor (particulate)
The ```sensor_particulate``` channel supports the ```Number``` item. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

### Sensor (temperature)
The ```sensor_temperature``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Temperature``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.



## Device Configuration
The following table provides a summary of the 0 configuration parameter available in the MH10-PM2.5-WA.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|

## Association Groups
Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The MH10-PM2.5-WA supports 1 association group.

### Group 1: Group 1

This group supports 5 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V0| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SENSOR_MULTILEVEL_V5| Linked to BASIC|
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V1| |

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [edit the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/244).
