---
layout: documentation
title: MH-S311H - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# MH-S311H Touch Panel Switch (Single) High inrush current
This describes the Z-Wave device *MH-S311H*, manufactured by *McoHome Technology Co., Ltd* with the thing type UID of ```mcohome_mhs311_00_000```.

The device is in the category of Wall Switch, defining Any device attached to the wall that controls a binary status of something, for ex. a light switch.

# Overview

Touch Panel Switch is a wall switch with built-in Z-Wave module. It supports basic command class，multi channel command class and multi channel association command class, which can control all associated devices synchronously. This product can be included and operated in any Z-Wave network with other Z-Wave certified devices from any other manufacturers.

## Inclusion Information

Press and hold any key on the panel for 8 seconds. If inclusion is successful, all INDICATION LEDs on the panel will turn green, and all switches will turn on.

## Exclusion Information

Press and hold any key on the panel for 8 seconds. If the exclusion is successful, all INDICATION LEDs on the panel will turn orange, and all switches will turn off. The exclusion will delete all association data.

## Wakeup Information

Same as inclusion

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the MH-S311H

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Switch | switch_binary | Switch | Switch | 
| Scene Number | scene_number |  | Number | 
| Scene Number | scene_number |  | Number | 
| Switch 1 | switch_binary1 | Switch | Switch | 

### Switch

The ```switch_binary``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Switch``` category.

### Scene Number

The ```scene_number``` channel supports the ```Number``` item.

### Scene Number

The ```scene_number``` channel supports the ```Number``` item.

### Switch 1

The ```switch_binary1``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Switch``` category.



## Device Configuration

The following table provides a summary of the 1 configuration parameter available in the MH-S311H.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 4 | LED Backlit brightness level | 0x00 LED disabled 0x01~0x0A Min level-Max level >0x0A same level as 0x0A |

### Parameter 4: LED Backlit brightness level

0x00 LED disabled 0x01~0x0A Min level-Max level >0x0A same level as 0x0A

Values in the range 0 to 10 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 10.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_4_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The MH-S311H supports 2 association groups.

### Group 1: Switch Button Group 1


This group supports 5 nodes.

### Group 2: All Status Reports


This group supports 5 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_BINARY_V1| Linked to BASIC|
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_ALL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SCENE_ACTIVATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SCENE_ACTUATOR_CONF_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_GRP_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_DEVICE_RESET_LOCALLY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CENTRAL_SCENE_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ZWAVEPLUS_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MULTI_CHANNEL_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_POWERLEVEL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_FIRMWARE_UPDATE_MD_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V2| |
#### Endpoint 1

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V0| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_BINARY_V1| Linked to BASIC|
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_ALL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_GRP_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ZWAVEPLUS_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V2| |

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [edit the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/812).
