---
layout: documentation
title: MH-S521 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# MH-S521 Shutter Panel
This describes the Z-Wave device *MH-S521*, manufactured by *[McoHome Technology Co., Ltd](http://www.mcohome.com/)* with the thing type UID of ```mcohome_mhs521_00_000```.

The MH-S521 does not permanently listen for messages sent from the controller - it will periodically wake up automatically to check if the controller has messages to send, but will sleep most of the time to conserve battery life. The wakeup period can be configured in the user interface - it is advisable not to make this too short as it will impact battery life - a reasonable compromise is 1 hour. The wakeup period does not impact the devices ability to report events or sensor data. The device can be manually woken with a button press on the device as described below - note that triggering a device to send an event is not the same as a wakeup notification, and this will not allow the controller to communicate with the device.

## Overview

No device information is provided in the database. Consider [updating the database](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/722) to improve the documentation.

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the MH-S521 -:

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Switch | switch_binary | Switch | Switch | 
| Dimmer | switch_dimmer | DimmableLight | Dimmer | 
| Scene Number | scene_number |  | Number | 
| Electric meter (watts) | meter_watts | Energy | Number | 
| Electric meter (kWh) | meter_kwh | Energy | Number | 
| Electric meter (volts) | meter_voltage | Energy | Number | 
| Electric meter (amps) | meter_current | Energy | Number | 
| Alarm | alarm_general | Door | Switch | 

### Switch

Switch the power on and off.

The ```switch_binary``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Switch``` category.

### Dimmer

The brightness channel allows to control the brightness of a light.
            It is also possible to switch the light on and off.

The ```switch_dimmer``` channel supports the ```Dimmer``` item and is in the ```DimmableLight``` category.

### Scene Number

Triggers when a scene button is pressed.

The ```scene_number``` channel supports the ```Number``` item.

### Electric meter (watts)

Indicates the instantaneous power consumption.

The ```meter_watts``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Energy``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

### Electric meter (kWh)

Indicates the energy consumption (kWh).

The ```meter_kwh``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Energy``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

### Electric meter (volts)

Indicates the instantaneous voltage.

The ```meter_voltage``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Energy``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

### Electric meter (amps)

Indicates the instantaneous current consumption.

The ```meter_current``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Energy``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

### Alarm

Indicates if an alarm is triggered.

The ```alarm_general``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OFF | Ok |
| ON | Alarm |



## Device Configuration

The device has no configuration parameters configured.

## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The MH-S521 supports 1 association group.

### Group 1: Lifeline


This group supports 5 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_BINARY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_MULTILEVEL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SCENE_ACTIVATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SCENE_ACTUATOR_CONF_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_METER_V3| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_GRP_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_DEVICE_RESET_LOCALLY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ZWAVEPLUS_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ALARM_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_POWERLEVEL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_FIRMWARE_UPDATE_MD_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V2| |

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [contribute to the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/722).
