---
layout: documentation
title: SCN01 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# SCN01 One-key Scene Controller
This describes the Z-Wave device *SCN01*, manufactured by *Hank* with the thing type UID of ```hank_scn01_00_000```.

# Overview

## Wakeup Information
There are no available settings to set up the wake up time.

Pressing and holding the Z-Button for 3 seconds. The led will turn to green, which means Scene Controller has successfully sent the wake up notification out.

## Channels
The following table summarises the channels available for the SCN01

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Scene Number | scene_number |  | Number | 

### Scene Number
The ```scene_number``` channel supports the ```Number``` item.



## Device Configuration
The following table provides a summary of the 0 configuration parameter available in the SCN01.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|

## Association Groups
Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The SCN01 supports 3 association groups.

### Group 1: Lifeline
Sends associated devices central scene notification command and battery report command.
This group supports 5 nodes.

### Group 2: On/Off Control
Sends basic set command to associated devices.
This group supports 5 nodes.

### Group 3: Dimming Control
Sends switch multilevel set, multilevel start level change and multilevel stop level change to associated devices.
This group supports 5 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_GRP_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_DEVICE_RESET_LOCALLY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CENTRAL_SCENE_V2| Linked to BASIC|
| COMMAND_CLASS_ZWAVEPLUS_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_POWERLEVEL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_FIRMWARE_UPDATE_MD_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BATTERY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_WAKE_UP_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V2| |

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [edit the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/488).
