---
layout: documentation
title: SCN04 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# SCN04 Four-key Scene Controller
This describes the Z-Wave device *SCN04*, manufactured by *[Hank](http://www.hank-tech.com/)* with the thing type UID of ```hank_scn04_00_000```.

The SCN04 supports routing. This allows the device to communicate using other routing enabled devices as intermediate routers.  This device is unable to participate in the routing of data from other devices.

The SCN04 does not permanently listen for messages sent from the controller - it will periodically wake up automatically to check if the controller has messages to send, but will sleep most of the time to conserve battery life. The wakeup period can be configured in the user interface - it is advisable not to make this too short as it will impact battery life - a reasonable compromise is 1 hour. The wakeup period does not impact the devices ability to report events or sensor data. The device can be manually woken with a button press on the device as described below - note that triggering a device to send an event is not the same as a wakeup notification, and this will not allow the controller to communicate with the device.

## Overview

Hank Z-Wave Scene Controller with 4 buttons. Supports security functions.

The Scene controller offers three button action types: short press, held down and release.  
  
\- If a button is pressed quickly (for less than a second), the scene controller sends a central scene notification command to association group 1. This message contains a scene number from 1-4 depending on which button is pressed. It also sends a basic set command to the items in the association group for the button (even groups numbered 2 to 8) and a multilevel set command to the nodes in the association group for the button with an uneven number (3 for button 1, 5 for button 2 etc.).  
\- If a button is pressed and held down for more than a second, the scene controller sends a central scene notification command to association group 1 as above. It also sends a multilevel start level change (i.e. dim up) command to the nodes in the association group for the button.  
\- If a button is released after it has been held down, the scene controller sends a similar central scene notification command as well as a multilevel stop command the buttons association group.

### Inclusion Information

Included as **non-secure** device:  
1\. Insert the LIR2450 battery.  
2\. Set the Z-Wave network main controller into learning mode( see Z-Waave network controller operating manul).  
3\. Triple click a button.  
4\. If the inclusion is successful, the LED will blink in blue less than 5 seconds and then keep on for 15 seconds.

Included as a **secure** device:  
1\. Insert the LIR2450 battery.  
2\. Set the Z-Wave network main controller into learning mode( see Z-Wave network controller operating manual).  
3\. Pressing and holding a button for 3 seconds.  
4\. If the inclusion is successful, the LED will blink in green less than for 5 seconds and then keep on for 15 seconds.

### Exclusion Information

1\. Insert the LIR2450 battery.  
2\. Set the Z-Wave network main controller into remove mode (see Z-Wave controller operating manual).  
3\. Triple click the a button, if the exclusion is successful, LED will blink in orange for less than 5 seconds and then keep on for 3 seconds.

### Wakeup Information

Press and hold any button for three seconds.

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the SCN04 -:

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Scene Number | scene_number |  | Number | 
| Battery Level | battery-level | Battery | Number |

### Scene Number

Triggers when a scene button is pressed.

The ```scene_number``` channel supports the ```Number``` item.

### Battery Level

Represents the battery level as a percentage (0-100%). Bindings for things supporting battery level in a different format (e.g. 4 levels) should convert to a percentage to provide a consistent battery level reading.

The ```battery-level``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Battery``` category.



## Device Configuration

The following table provides a summary of the 1 configuration parameters available in the SCN04.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 254 | Enable configuration | Lock/unlock all configuration parameters. |
|  | Wakeup Interval | Sets the interval at which the device will accept commands from the controller |
|  | Wakeup Node | Sets the node ID of the device to receive the wakeup notifications |

### Parameter 254: Enable configuration

Lock/unlock all configuration parameters.
Lock/unlock configuration of unit.

0 = Unlock (default)  
1 = Lock
The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Unlock |
| 1 | Lock |

The manufacturer defined default value is ```0``` (Unlock).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_254_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.

### Wakeup Interval

The wakeup interval sets the period at which the device will listen for messages from the controller. This is required for battery devices that sleep most of the time in order to conserve battery life. The device will wake up at this interval and send a message to the controller to tell it that it can accept messages - after a few seconds, it will go back to sleep if there is no further communications. 

This setting is defined in *seconds*. It is advisable not to set this interval too short or it could impact battery life. A period of 1 hour (3600 seconds) is suitable in most instances.

Note that this setting does not affect the devices ability to send sensor data, or notification events.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```wakeup_interval``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.

### Wakeup Node

When sleeping devices wake up, they send a notification to a listening device. Normally, this device is the network controller, and normally the controller will set this automatically to its own address.
In the event that the network contains multiple controllers, it may be necessary to configure this to a node that is not the main controller. This is an advanced setting and should not be changed without a full understanding of the impact.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```wakeup_node``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The SCN04 supports 9 association groups.

### Group 1: Central notification

Scene commands and battery reports
This group supports 5 nodes.

### Group 2: Basic commands button 1

Send basic commands for button 1
This group supports 5 nodes.

### Group 3: Multilevel button 1

Send multilevel commands for button 1
This group supports 5 nodes.

### Group 4: Basic commands button 2

Send basic commands for button 2
This group supports 5 nodes.

### Group 5: Multilevel button 2

Send multilevel commands for button 2
This group supports 5 nodes.

### Group 6: Basic commands button 3

Send basic commands for button 3
This group supports 5 nodes.

### Group 7: Multilevel button 3

Send multilevel commands for button 3
This group supports 5 nodes.

### Group 8: Basic commands button 4

Send basic commands for button 4
This group supports 5 nodes.

### Group 9: Multilevel button 4

Send multilevel commands for button 4
This group supports 5 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_GRP_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_DEVICE_RESET_LOCALLY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CENTRAL_SCENE_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ZWAVEPLUS_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_POWERLEVEL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_FIRMWARE_UPDATE_MD_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BATTERY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_WAKE_UP_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V2| |

### Documentation Links

* [Manual](https://www.cd-jackson.com/zwave_device_uploads/697/HKZW-SCN04-Manual.pdf)

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [contribute to the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/697).
