---
layout: documentation
title: CSZ1 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# CSZ1 Cellular Shade Radio Z-Wave
This describes the Z-Wave device *CSZ1*, manufactured by *Graber* with the thing type UID of ```graber_csz1_00_000```.

# Overview
See http://products.z-wavealliance.org/products/1749

## Inclusion Information
1. Put Primary Controller into Inclusion Mode
2. Press and Hold Shade Programming Button for >2 seconds

## Exclusion Information
1. Put Primary Controller into Exclusion Mode
2. Press and Hold Shade Programming Button for >2 seconds

## Wakeup Information
The Wakeup command class should be configured by a hub when the remote is joined to a Z-Wave network. A WAKE\_UP\_INTERVAL\_SET command should configure the NodeID at a minimum. The Wakeup interval can be configured to any value from 6 minutes to 25 hours. Recommendation is to leave the interval at the default of 12 hours to maximize battery life. The remote will wake up every WakeUpInterval and send a WakeUp Notification command as well as a battery report to the NodeID assigned with the Interval Set command. The WakeUp Notification will be sent within a few minutes of power being applied to the remote and then once every Wake Up Interval. A Wakeup Interval Capabilities command will inform the hub of the default, minimum, maximum and step size of the Wake Up interval.

## Channels
The following table summarises the channels available for the CSZ1

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Switch | switch_binary | Switch | Switch | 
| Dimmer | switch_dimmer | DimmableLight | Dimmer | 

### Switch
The ```switch_binary``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Switch``` category.

### Dimmer
The ```switch_dimmer``` channel supports the ```Dimmer``` item and is in the ```DimmableLight``` category.



## Device Configuration
The following table provides a summary of the 0 configuration parameter available in the CSZ1.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|

## Association Groups
Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The CSZ1 supports 0 association group.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_BINARY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_MULTILEVEL_V3| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_GRP_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_DEVICE_RESET_LOCALLY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ZWAVEPLUS_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_POWERLEVEL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_FIRMWARE_UPDATE_MD_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BATTERY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V2| |

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [edit the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/587).
