---
layout: documentation
title: P313A - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# P313A Plug-in Socket Dimmer
This describes the Z-Wave device *P313A*, manufactured by *Qees* with the thing type UID of ```qees_p313a_00_000```.

The P313A supports routing. This allows the device to communicate using other routing enabled devices as intermediate routers.  This device is also able to participate in the routing of data from other devices.

## Overview

No device information is provided in the database. Consider [updating the database](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/500) to improve the documentation.

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the P313A -:

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Switch | switch_binary | Switch | Switch | 
| Dimmer | switch_dimmer | DimmableLight | Dimmer | 
| Scene Number | scene_number |  | Number | 
| Electric meter (kVAh) | meter_kvah | Energy | Number | 
| Electric meter (kWh) | meter_kwh | Energy | Number | 
| Electric meter (volts) | meter_voltage | Energy | Number | 
| Electric meter (amps) | meter_current | Energy | Number | 
| Electric meter (watts) | meter_watts | Energy | Number | 
| Electric meter (power factor) | meter_powerfactor | Energy | Number | 

### Switch

Switch the power on and off.

The ```switch_binary``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Switch``` category.

### Dimmer

The brightness channel allows to control the brightness of a light.
            It is also possible to switch the light on and off.

The ```switch_dimmer``` channel supports the ```Dimmer``` item and is in the ```DimmableLight``` category.

### Scene Number

Triggers when a scene button is pressed.

The ```scene_number``` channel supports the ```Number``` item.

### Electric meter (kVAh)

Indicates the energy consumption (kVAh).

The ```meter_kvah``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Energy``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

### Electric meter (kWh)

Indicates the energy consumption (kWh).

The ```meter_kwh``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Energy``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

### Electric meter (volts)

Indicates the instantaneous voltage.

The ```meter_voltage``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Energy``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

### Electric meter (amps)

Indicates the instantaneous current consumption.

The ```meter_current``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Energy``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

### Electric meter (watts)

Indicates the instantaneous power consumption.

The ```meter_watts``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Energy``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

### Electric meter (power factor)

Indicates the instantaneous power factor.

The ```meter_powerfactor``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Energy``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.



## Device Configuration

The device has no configuration parameters configured.

## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The device does not support associations.
## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_BINARY_V0| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_MULTILEVEL_V2| Linked to BASIC|
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_ALL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SCENE_ACTIVATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SCENE_ACTUATOR_CONF_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_METER_V3| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_FIRMWARE_UPDATE_MD_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V1| |

### Documentation Links

* [QEES Plus Plug-in Online Manual New Menu v03](https://www.cd-jackson.com/zwave_device_uploads/500/QEES-Plus-Plug-in-Online-Manual-New-Menu-v03.pdf)
* [Quick Start Guide](https://www.cd-jackson.com/zwave_device_uploads/500/quick-start-guide.pdf)

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [contribute to the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/500).
