---
layout: documentation
title: AD142 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# AD142 Indoor Dimmer Plug
This describes the Z-Wave device *AD142*, manufactured by *Everspring* with the thing type UID of ```everspring_ad142_00_000```.

The device is in the category of Power Outlet, defining Small devices to be plugged into a power socket in a wall which stick there.

# Overview
This plug-in Lamp Module is a transceiver which is a Z-Wave enabled device and is fully compatible with any Z-Wave enabled network. Z-Wave enabled devices displaying the Z-Wave logo can also be used with it regardless of the manufacturer, and ours can also be used in other manufacturer’s Z-Wave enabled networks. Inclusion of the Lamp module on other manufacturer’s Wireless Controller menu allows remote On/Off control and dimming of lamps connected. Each module is designed to act as a repeater. Repeaters will re-transmit the RF signal to ensure that the signal is received by its intended destination by routing the signal around obstacles and radio dead spots.

## Channels
The following table summarises the channels available for the AD142

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Dimmer | switch_dimmer | DimmableLight | Dimmer | 

### Dimmer
The ```switch_dimmer``` channel supports the ```Dimmer``` item and is in the ```DimmableLight``` category.



## Device Configuration
The following table provides a summary of the 0 configuration parameter available in the AD142.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|

## Association Groups
Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The AD142 supports 0 association group.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V0| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_MULTILEVEL_V1| Linked to BASIC|
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_ALL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_POWERLEVEL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_PROTECTION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V1| |

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [edit the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/25).
