---
layout: documentation
title: AD147 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# AD147 Z-Wave Dimmer Plug
This describes the Z-Wave device *AD147*, manufactured by *Everspring* with the thing type UID of ```everspring_ad147_00_000```.

The AD147 supports routing. This allows the device to communicate using other routing enabled devices as intermediate routers.  This device is also able to participate in the routing of data from other devices.

## Overview

No device information is provided in the database. Consider [updating the database](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/353) to improve the documentation.

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the AD147 -:

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Dimmer | switch_dimmer | DimmableLight | Dimmer | 
| Alarm (general) | alarm_general | Door | Switch | 

### Dimmer

The brightness channel allows to control the brightness of a light.
            It is also possible to switch the light on and off.

The ```switch_dimmer``` channel supports the ```Dimmer``` item and is in the ```DimmableLight``` category.

### Alarm (general)

Indicates if an alarm is triggered.

The ```alarm_general``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OFF | Ok |
| ON | Alarm |



## Device Configuration

The following table provides a summary of the 4 configuration parameters available in the AD147.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 1 | Basic Set Command value | Basic Set Command value |
| 2 | Delaying Time to report to Group 1 | The delaying time to report to Group 1 |
| 3 | Remember the last status | Remember the last status |
| 4 | Output mode setting: Dimming, On/Off | Output mode setting: Dimming, On/Off |
|  | Switch All Mode | Set the mode for the switch when receiving SWITCH ALL commands |

### Parameter 1: Basic Set Command value

Basic Set Command value

Values in the range 0 to 255 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```255```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_1_2``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 2: Delaying Time to report to Group 1

The delaying time to report to Group 1

Values in the range 3 to 25 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```3```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_2_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 3: Remember the last status

Remember the last status
1 = Remember

0 = Do not remember
Values in the range 0 to 1 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```1```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_3_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 4: Output mode setting: Dimming, On/Off

Output mode setting: Dimming, On/Off
0 = Dimming

1 = On/off
Values in the range 0 to 1 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```0```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_4_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.

### Switch All Mode

Set the mode for the switch when receiving SWITCH ALL commands.

The following option values may be configured -:
| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Exclude from All On and All Off groups |
| 1 | Include in All On group |
| 2 | Include in All Off group |
| 255 | Include in All On and All Off groups |

This parameter has the configuration ID ```switchall_mode``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The AD147 supports 2 association groups.

### Group 1: Lifeline

Provides reports
This group supports 1 nodes.

### Group 2: On/Off control

Basic Set
This group supports 4 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_MULTILEVEL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_ALL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ALARM_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V1| |

### Documentation Links

* [User Manual](https://www.cd-jackson.com/zwave_device_uploads/353/ad147-dimmer-manual.pdf)

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [contribute to the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/353).
