---
layout: documentation
title: HAC01 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# HAC01 In-Wall Remote Insert
This describes the Z-Wave device *HAC01*, manufactured by *Everspring* with the thing type UID of ```everspring_hac01_00_000```.

The HAC01 supports routing. This allows the device to communicate using other routing enabled devices as intermediate routers.  This device is also able to participate in the routing of data from other devices.

## Overview

No device information is provided in the database. Consider [updating the database](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/270) to improve the documentation.

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the HAC01 -:

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Switch | switch_binary | Switch | Switch | 

### Switch

Switch the power on and off.

The ```switch_binary``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Switch``` category.



## Device Configuration

The following table provides a summary of the 2 configuration parameters available in the HAC01.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 1 | Basic Set Level | The Basic Set Command is sent with this value. |
| 2 | Amount Of Delay | Amount Of Delay (seconds) to send the Basic Set Off command. |

### Parameter 1: Basic Set Level

The Basic Set Command is sent with this value.
The Basic Set Command is sent with value to have the receiving device recognize the value for controlled level, for example, if the Basic Set Command sent to dimmer with value, the dimmer would activate the luminance according to the value.   
  
0 : Off  
1 – 99 : On (for Binary Switch Device); Dim Level (for Multilevel Switch Device)
Values in the range 0 to 99 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```99```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_1_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 2: Amount Of Delay

Amount Of Delay (seconds) to send the Basic Set Off command.
This is applied to determine the delay time setting to send the Basic Set Off command when the manual switch input at NO (open).   
  
Example :   
0 : immediately Off   
1 – 127 : delay 1 ~ 127 second to Off
Values in the range 0 to 127 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```1```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_2_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The HAC01 supports 1 association group.

### Group 1: Switch Input Change

Target nodes that receive Basic Set command when the switch input changed.
This group supports 5 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_APPLICATION_STATUS_V0| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_BINARY_V1| Linked to BASIC|
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V1| |

### Documentation Links

* [English User Manual](https://www.cd-jackson.com/zwave_device_uploads/270/z-wave-everspring-in-wall-remote-insert-manual.pdf)

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [contribute to the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/270).
