---
layout: documentation
title: HSM02 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# HSM02 Door/Window Contact
This describes the Z-Wave device *HSM02*, manufactured by *Everspring* with the thing type UID of ```everspring_hsm02_00_000```.

# Overview


## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the HSM02

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Door / Window Status | sensor_door | Door | Contact | 
| Alarm | alarm_general | Door | Switch | 

### Door / Window Status

The ```sensor_door``` channel supports the ```Contact``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Contact``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OPEN | Open |
| CLOSED | Closed |

### Alarm

The ```alarm_general``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OFF | Ok |
| ON | Alarm |



## Device Configuration

The following table provides a summary of the 3 configuration parameters available in the HSM02.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 1 | Basic Set Level | Value to be sent with a BASIC SET command |
| 2 | Configuring the OFF Delay | OFF Delay in seconds |
| 3 | Staying Awake (for testing) |  |

### Parameter 1: Basic Set Level

Value to be sent with a BASIC SET command
0: Off

1-99, 255: Dim Level (Multilevel Switch Device), ON (Binary Switch Device)
Values in the range 0 to 99 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 99.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_1_2``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 2: Configuring the OFF Delay

OFF Delay in seconds
The Configuration parameter that can be used to adjust the amount of delay before the OFF command is transmitted. This parameter can be configured as 0-127, where 0 means sending OFF command immediately and 127 means 127 seconds of delay.
Values in the range 0 to 127 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 0.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_2_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 3: Staying Awake (for testing)


Can be used to determine if the unit stays "awake" all the time. This parameter can be configured as 0 or 1, where 1 means "enabled" and 0 stands for "disabled"This is an advanced parameter and will therefore not show in the user interface without entering advanced mode.
Values in the range 0 to 1 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 0.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_3_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The HSM02 supports 2 association groups.

### Group 1: Target for reports

Support ALARM\_REPORT, SENSOR\_BINARY\_SUPPORT
This group supports 1 nodes.

### Group 2: Target nodes who receive BASIC_SET command


This group supports 5 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SENSOR_BINARY_V1| Linked to BASIC|
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ALARM_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BATTERY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_WAKE_UP_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V1| |

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [edit the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/34).
