---
layout: documentation
title: HSP02 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# HSP02 Motion Detector
This describes the Z-Wave device *HSP02*, manufactured by *Everspring* with the thing type UID of ```everspring_hsp02_00_000```.

The device is in the category of Motion Detector, defining Motion sensors/detectors.

# Overview


## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the HSP02

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Binary Sensor | sensor_binary | Door | Switch | 
| Alarm | alarm_general | Door | Switch | 

### Binary Sensor

The ```sensor_binary``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| ON | Triggered |
| OFF | Untriggered |

### Alarm

The ```alarm_general``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OFF | Ok |
| ON | Alarm |



## Device Configuration

The following table provides a summary of the 6 configuration parameters available in the HSP02.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 1 | Basic Set Level | Value to be sent with a BASIC SET command |
| 2 | Sensor Detecting Function |  |
| 3 | Sensitivity Level |  |
| 4 | Re-trigger Interval Setting |  |
| 5 | LUX Level | Value for what LUX level will arm the detection sensor |
| 6 | On-Off Duration |  |

### Parameter 1: Basic Set Level

Value to be sent with a BASIC SET command

Values in the range 0 to 99 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 99.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_1_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 2: Sensor Detecting Function



The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 1 | Group 1 Enabled / Group 2 Enabled |
| 2 | Group 1 Enabled / Group 2 Disabled |
| 3 | Group 1 Disabled / Group 2 Disabled |

The manufacturer defined default value is 1 (Group 1 Enabled / Group 2 Enabled).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_2_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 3: Sensitivity Level



Values in the range 1 to 10 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 6.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_3_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 4: Re-trigger Interval Setting



Values in the range 5 to 255 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 180.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_4_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 5: LUX Level

Value for what LUX level will arm the detection sensor

Values in the range 1 to 100 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 10.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_5_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 6: On-Off Duration



Values in the range 5 to 255 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 15.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_6_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The HSP02 supports 2 association groups.

### Group 1: Target for reports


This group supports 1 nodes.

### Group 2: Target nodes who receive BASIC_SET command


This group supports 5 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SENSOR_BINARY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ALARM_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BATTERY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_WAKE_UP_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V1| |

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [edit the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/22).
