---
layout: documentation
title: SP814 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# SP814 Motion Detector
This describes the Z-Wave device *SP814*, manufactured by *Everspring* with the thing type UID of ```everspring_sp814_00_000```.

The SP814 supports routing. This allows the device to communicate using other routing enabled devices as intermediate routers.  This device is unable to participate in the routing of data from other devices.

The SP814 does not permanently listen for messages sent from the controller - it will periodically wake up automatically to check if the controller has messages to send, but will sleep most of the time to conserve battery life. The wakeup period can be configured in the user interface - it is advisable not to make this too short as it will impact battery life - a reasonable compromise is 1 hour. The wakeup period does not impact the devices ability to report events or sensor data. The device can be manually woken with a button press on the device as described below - note that triggering a device to send an event is not the same as a wakeup notification, and this will not allow the controller to communicate with the device.

## Overview

No device information is provided in the database. Consider [updating the database](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/30) to improve the documentation.

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the SP814 -:

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Binary Sensor | sensor_binary | Door | Switch | 
| Battery Level | battery-level | Battery | Number |

### Binary Sensor

Indicates if a sensor has triggered.

The ```sensor_binary``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| ON | Triggered |
| OFF | Untriggered |

### Battery Level

Represents the battery level as a percentage (0-100%). Bindings for things supporting battery level in a different format (e.g. 4 levels) should convert to a percentage to provide a consistent battery level reading.

The ```battery-level``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Battery``` category.



## Device Configuration

The following table provides a summary of the 6 configuration parameters available in the SP814.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 1 | Basic Set Level | Basic Set Level |
| 2 | Enable/Disable Detecting | The Detecting function can be Disabled or Enabled. |
| 3 | Sensitivity Level | 1 Means lowest sensitivity and 10 means highest. |
| 4 | Re-trigger Interval | Adjust the interval of being re-triggered after a trigger |
| 5 | Lux Level | Minimum Lux Level to provoke trigger |
| 6 | On-Off Duration | On-Off Duration |
|  | Wakeup Interval | Sets the interval at which the device will accept commands from the controller |
|  | Wakeup Node | Sets the node ID of the device to receive the wakeup notifications |

### Parameter 1: Basic Set Level

Basic Set Level
When Basic Set Command is sent where contains a value, the receiver will take it for consideration; for instance, if a lamp module is received the Basic Set command of which value is decisive as to how bright of dim level of lamp module shall be.

Example: 0: OFF

1-99: ON (Binary Switch Device)

Dim Level (Multilevel Switch Device)

Function: Basic Set level

Parameter: 1

Number Size: 1

Range: 0-99

Default: 99
Values in the range 0 to 99 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```99```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_1_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 2: Enable/Disable Detecting

The Detecting function can be Disabled or Enabled.

The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Disabled |
| 1 | Enabled |

The manufacturer defined default value is ```1``` (Enabled).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_2_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 3: Sensitivity Level

1 Means lowest sensitivity and 10 means highest.

Values in the range 1 to 10 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```6```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_3_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 4: Re-trigger Interval

Adjust the interval of being re-triggered after a trigger
The Configuration parameter that can be used to adjust the interval of being re-triggered after the detector has been triggered as Configuration Parameter #4. No response will be made during this interval if a movement is presented. The time interval can be set between 5 secs to 3600 secs.
Values in the range 5 to 3600 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```5```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_4_2``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 5: Lux Level

Minimum Lux Level to provoke trigger
Sets minimum Lux Level of ambient illumination necessary for Motion Detector to trigger.

The user can set a detecting percentage of lux level which determines when the light sensor will be activated. If percentage of lux level of ambient illumination falls below this percentage, and a person moves across or within the protected area, the detector will emit Z-Wave ON Command (i.e. Basic Set Command (Value = Basic Set Level)) to controller and activate connected modules and lighting. Percentage can be set between 1% to 100%.
Values in the range 1 to 100 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```10```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_5_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 6: On-Off Duration

On-Off Duration
The function of on-off duration setting will be useful if the detector is connected with a module or lighting. The duration determines how long the module/lighting should stay ON. For instance, Lamp Module turns off 100 secs after it has been turned on. This parameter can be configured with the value of 5 through 3600, where 5 means 5 second delay and 3600 means 3600 seconds of delay
Values in the range 5 to 255 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```5```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_6_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.

### Wakeup Interval

The wakeup interval sets the period at which the device will listen for messages from the controller. This is required for battery devices that sleep most of the time in order to conserve battery life. The device will wake up at this interval and send a message to the controller to tell it that it can accept messages - after a few seconds, it will go back to sleep if there is no further communications. 

This setting is defined in *seconds*. It is advisable not to set this interval too short or it could impact battery life. A period of 1 hour (3600 seconds) is suitable in most instances.

Note that this setting does not affect the devices ability to send sensor data, or notification events.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```wakeup_interval``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.

### Wakeup Node

When sleeping devices wake up, they send a notification to a listening device. Normally, this device is the network controller, and normally the controller will set this automatically to its own address.
In the event that the network contains multiple controllers, it may be necessary to configure this to a node that is not the main controller. This is an advanced setting and should not be changed without a full understanding of the impact.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```wakeup_node``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The SP814 supports 2 association groups.

### Group 1: Reports


This group supports 1 nodes.

### Group 2: Control


This group supports 3 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SENSOR_BINARY_V1| Linked to BASIC|
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BATTERY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_WAKE_UP_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V1| |

### Documentation Links

* [User Manual](https://www.cd-jackson.com/zwave_device_uploads/30/Everspring-SP814-PIR-LUX.pdf)

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [contribute to the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/30).
