---
layout: documentation
title: ST812 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# ST812 Flood Sensor
This describes the Z-Wave device *ST812*, manufactured by *Everspring* with the thing type UID of ```everspring_st812_00_000```.

# Overview


## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the ST812

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Alarm | alarm_general | Door | Switch | 
| Alarm (flood) | alarm_flood | Door | Switch | 

### Alarm

The ```alarm_general``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OFF | Ok |
| ON | Alarm |

### Alarm (flood)

The ```alarm_flood``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OFF | Ok |
| ON | Alarm |



## Device Configuration

The following table provides a summary of the 1 configuration parameters available in the ST812.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 1 | Basic Level Set | The value sent with Basic commands in case of detected flood |

### Parameter 1: Basic Level Set

The value sent with Basic commands in case of detected flood

Values in the range 0 to 99 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 99.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_1_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The ST812 supports 2 association groups.

### Group 1: Power applied and Sensor Alarm


This group supports 1 nodes.

### Group 2: Device control

Group to send trigger value to
This group supports 3 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ALARM_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BATTERY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_WAKE_UP_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SENSOR_ALARM_V1| |

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [edit the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/37).
