---
layout: documentation
title: ST815 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# ST815 Illumination Sensor
This describes the Z-Wave device *ST815*, manufactured by *Everspring* with the thing type UID of ```everspring_st815_00_000```.

The ST815 supports routing. This allows the device to communicate using other routing enabled devices as intermediate routers.  This device is unable to participate in the routing of data from other devices.

The ST815 does not permanently listen for messages sent from the controller - it will periodically wake up automatically to check if the controller has messages to send, but will sleep most of the time to conserve battery life. The wakeup period can be configured in the user interface - it is advisable not to make this too short as it will impact battery life - a reasonable compromise is 1 hour. The wakeup period does not impact the devices ability to report events or sensor data. The device can be manually woken with a button press on the device as described below - note that triggering a device to send an event is not the same as a wakeup notification, and this will not allow the controller to communicate with the device.

## Overview

No device information is provided in the database. Consider [updating the database](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/32) to improve the documentation.

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the ST815 -:

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Sensor (luminance) | sensor_luminance | Temperature | Number | 
| Battery Level | battery-level | Battery | Number |

### Sensor (luminance)

Indicates the current light reading.

The ```sensor_luminance``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Temperature``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

### Battery Level

Represents the battery level as a percentage (0-100%). Bindings for things supporting battery level in a different format (e.g. 4 levels) should convert to a percentage to provide a consistent battery level reading.

The ```battery-level``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Battery``` category.



## Device Configuration

The following table provides a summary of the 6 configuration parameters available in the ST815.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 1 | Basic Set Level | Basic Set Level |
| 2 | Lux Trigger On Value | Lux Trigger On Value |
| 3 | Lux Trigger Off Value |  |
| 4 | Lux Trigger Off Timer Value. | Lux Trigger Off Timer Value. |
| 5 | Auto Report Time Interval | Auto Report Time Interval |
| 6 | Auto Report Lux Interval | Auto Report Lux Interval |
|  | Wakeup Interval | Sets the interval at which the device will accept commands from the controller |
|  | Wakeup Node | Sets the node ID of the device to receive the wakeup notifications |

### Parameter 1: Basic Set Level

Basic Set Level
Set basic set value to be on or off.

Set to 0 to disable
Values in the range 0 to 99 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```99```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_1_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 2: Lux Trigger On Value

Lux Trigger On Value
Lux level when ON command is sent out.

Set to 0 to disable.

Valid values - 30-1000 or 0

Default 30
Values in the range 0 to 1000 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```300```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_2_2``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 3: Lux Trigger Off Value


Lux level when Off command is sent out.

Values 30-1000 or 0

Default 500

Set to 0 to disable.
Values in the range 0 to 1000 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```500```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_3_2``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 4: Lux Trigger Off Timer Value.

Lux Trigger Off Timer Value.
Timer value in minutes.

Values : 1-480 or 0

Default 240

Set to 0 to disable.
Values in the range 0 to 480 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```0```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_4_2``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 5: Auto Report Time Interval

Auto Report Time Interval
Time interval in minutes to auto report to association group 1

Valid values 1-1439 minutes or 0

Set to 0 to Disable
Values in the range 0 to 1439 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```0```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_5_2``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 6: Auto Report Lux Interval

Auto Report Lux Interval
Lux interval step size to auto report to association group 1

Valid Values 30-1000 (Lux)

Set to 0 to Disable
Values in the range 0 to 1000 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```0```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_6_2``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.

### Wakeup Interval

The wakeup interval sets the period at which the device will listen for messages from the controller. This is required for battery devices that sleep most of the time in order to conserve battery life. The device will wake up at this interval and send a message to the controller to tell it that it can accept messages - after a few seconds, it will go back to sleep if there is no further communications. 

This setting is defined in *seconds*. It is advisable not to set this interval too short or it could impact battery life. A period of 1 hour (3600 seconds) is suitable in most instances.

Note that this setting does not affect the devices ability to send sensor data, or notification events.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```wakeup_interval``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.

### Wakeup Node

When sleeping devices wake up, they send a notification to a listening device. Normally, this device is the network controller, and normally the controller will set this automatically to its own address.
In the event that the network contains multiple controllers, it may be necessary to configure this to a node that is not the main controller. This is an advanced setting and should not be changed without a full understanding of the impact.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```wakeup_node``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The ST815 supports 2 association groups.

### Group 1: Reports


This group supports 1 nodes.

### Group 2: Control


This group supports 3 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SENSOR_MULTILEVEL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BATTERY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_WAKE_UP_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V1| |

### Documentation Links

* [User Manual](https://www.cd-jackson.com/zwave_device_uploads/32/Everspring-ST815-Lux.pdf)

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [contribute to the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/32).
