---
layout: documentation
title: DCH-Z310 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# DCH-Z310 Smoke Detector
This describes the Z-Wave device *DCH-Z310*, manufactured by *[D-Link](http://www.dlink.com/)* with the thing type UID of ```dlink_dchz310_00_000```.

The device is in the category of *Smoke Detector*, defining Smoke detectors.

The DCH-Z310 supports routing. This allows the device to communicate using other routing enabled devices as intermediate routers.  This device is unable to participate in the routing of data from other devices.

The DCH-Z310 does not permanently listen for messages sent from the controller - it will periodically wake up automatically to check if the controller has messages to send, but will sleep most of the time to conserve battery life. The wakeup period can be configured in the user interface - it is advisable not to make this too short as it will impact battery life - a reasonable compromise is 1 hour. The wakeup period does not impact the devices ability to report events or sensor data. The device can be manually woken with a button press on the device as described below - note that triggering a device to send an event is not the same as a wakeup notification, and this will not allow the controller to communicate with the device.

## Overview

The DCH-Z310 mydlink™ Z-Wave Smoke Alarm is a wireless early warning detection system that warns you of developing fires by broadcasting audible alarms via its built-in horn. Based on Z-Wave Plus™ technology, it offers longer battery life, faster operation, better RF coverage, and easier installation while keeping compatibility with classic Z-Wave™ products. You can set an alarm via the mydlink™ Home app so when you’re away, the DCH-Z310 will be enabled and ready to send signals to a hub such as the mydlink™ Home Connected Home Hub. When the alarm is triggered, it will generate an 85 dB (max) audio alarm while pushing instant notifications to your mobile device, so you can stay informed from wherever you are.

### Inclusion Information

Put your hub/controller in Add mode. Press the button on the front of the smoke sensor three times quickly.

### Exclusion Information

Put your hub/controller in Exclusion mode. Press the button on the front of the smoke sensor three times quickly.

### Wakeup Information

After the device is added to the network, it will wake-up once per day in default. When it wake-up it will broadcast the "Wake Up Notification" message to the network, and wake-up for 10 seconds to receive the setting commands. The wake-up interval minimum setting is 30 minutes, and maximum setting is 120 hours. And the interval step is 30 minutes. If the user wants to wake-up the device immediately, please press the button once. The device will wake-up 10 seconds.

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the DCH-Z310 -:

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Binary Sensor | sensor_binary | Door | Switch | 
| Alarm (smoke) | alarm_smoke | Door | Switch | 
| Alarm (burglar) | alarm_burglar | Door | Switch | 
| Battery Level | battery-level | Battery | Number |

### Binary Sensor

Indicates if a sensor has triggered.

The ```sensor_binary``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| ON | Triggered |
| OFF | Untriggered |

### Alarm (smoke)

Indicates if a smoke is triggered.

The ```alarm_smoke``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OFF | Ok |
| ON | Alarm |

### Alarm (burglar)

Indicates if the burglar alarm is triggered.

The ```alarm_burglar``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OFF | Ok |
| ON | Alarm |

### Battery Level

Represents the battery level as a percentage (0-100%). Bindings for things supporting battery level in a different format (e.g. 4 levels) should convert to a percentage to provide a consistent battery level reading.

The ```battery-level``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Battery``` category.



## Device Configuration

The following table provides a summary of the 2 configuration parameters available in the DCH-Z310.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 7 | Customer Function | Customer function switch, using bit control |
| 10 | Auto Report Battery Time | The interval time for auto report the battery level |
|  | Wakeup Interval | Sets the interval at which the device will accept commands from the controller |
|  | Wakeup Node | Sets the node ID of the device to receive the wakeup notifications |

### Parameter 7: Customer Function

Customer function switch, using bit control
Bit0 : Reserve.  
Bit1 : Reserve.  
Bit2 : Reserve.  
Bit3 : Reserve.  
Bit4 : Notification Type  
0: Using Notification Report  
1: Using Sensor Binary Report  
Bit5 : Reserve.  
Bit6 : Reserve.  
Bit7 : Reserve.
The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 4 | Notification Report |
| 20 | Sensor Binary Report |

The manufacturer defined default value is ```4``` (Notification Report).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_7_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 10: Auto Report Battery Time

The interval time for auto report the battery level
The interval time for auto report the battery level. 0 means turn off auto report battery. Each tick means 30 minutes.
Values in the range 0 to 127 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```12```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_10_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.

### Wakeup Interval

The wakeup interval sets the period at which the device will listen for messages from the controller. This is required for battery devices that sleep most of the time in order to conserve battery life. The device will wake up at this interval and send a message to the controller to tell it that it can accept messages - after a few seconds, it will go back to sleep if there is no further communications. 

This setting is defined in *seconds*. It is advisable not to set this interval too short or it could impact battery life. A period of 1 hour (3600 seconds) is suitable in most instances.

Note that this setting does not affect the devices ability to send sensor data, or notification events.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```wakeup_interval``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.

### Wakeup Node

When sleeping devices wake up, they send a notification to a listening device. Normally, this device is the network controller, and normally the controller will set this automatically to its own address.
In the event that the network contains multiple controllers, it may be necessary to configure this to a node that is not the main controller. This is an advanced setting and should not be changed without a full understanding of the impact.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```wakeup_node``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The DCH-Z310 supports 1 association group.

### Group 1: Reports

Receiving the report message, like triggered event etc
This group supports 8 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SENSOR_BINARY_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_GRP_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_DEVICE_RESET_LOCALLY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ZWAVEPLUS_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ALARM_V4| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_POWERLEVEL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_FIRMWARE_UPDATE_MD_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BATTERY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_WAKE_UP_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SECURITY_V0| |

### Documentation Links

* [User Manual](https://www.cd-jackson.com/zwave_device_uploads/689/DCH-Z310-man-reva-Manual-en.pdf)
* [Z-Wave documentation](https://www.cd-jackson.com/zwave_device_uploads/689/dchz310.pdf)

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [contribute to the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/689).
