---
layout: documentation
title: DCH-Z510 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# DCH-Z510 Siren
This describes the Z-Wave device *DCH-Z510*, manufactured by *[D-Link](http://www.dlink.com/)* with the thing type UID of ```dlink_dchz510_00_000```.

The device is in the category of *Siren*, defining Siren used by Alarm systems.

The DCH-Z510 supports routing. This allows the device to communicate using other routing enabled devices as intermediate routers.  This device is also able to participate in the routing of data from other devices.

## Overview

### Inclusion Information

1. Have Z-Wave Controller enter inclusion mode.
2. Pressing tamper key three times within 1.5 seconds to enter the inclusion mode.
3. After add successful, the LED will light ON 1 second

### Exclusion Information

1. Have Z-Wave Controller enter exclusion mode.
2. Pressing tamper key three times within 1.5 seconds to enter the exclusion mode.
3. Node ID has been excluded.

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the DCH-Z510 -:

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Switch | switch_binary | Switch | Switch | 
| Binary Sensor | sensor_binary | Door | Switch | 
| Start sound | notification_send |  | Number | 

### Switch

Switch the power on and off.

The ```switch_binary``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Switch``` category.

### Binary Sensor

Indicates if a sensor has triggered.

The ```sensor_binary``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| ON | Triggered |
| OFF | Untriggered |

### Start sound

Notification

Event

Sound

 event1 Smokealarm (0x01)

0x01 ~ 0xFF

fire alert

 event2 Accesscontrol (0x06)

Window/Door open (0x16)

door chime

 event7 Accesscontrol (0x06)

Activate alarm system (0x03)

2x beep

 event8 Accesscontrol (0x06)

Deactivate alarm system (0x04)

1x beep

 event3 Homesecurity (0x07)

0x01 ~ 0xFF

emergency

 sound event4 Emergency (0x0A)

Contact police (0x01)

policecar

sound

 event5 Emergency (0x0A)

Contact fire department (0x02)

fire engine sound

 event6 Emergency (0x0A)

Contact ambulance (0x03)

ambulance

sound

 event9 Emergency (0x0A) Notification (0xFE)

silent alarm (no sound, flashing LED)

Sends a notification.

The ```notification_send``` channel supports the ```Number``` item.



## Device Configuration

The following table provides a summary of the 3 configuration parameters available in the DCH-Z510.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 7 | Customer Function |  |
| 29 | Disable Alarm |  |
| 31 | Alarm Duration | Play alarm sound duration, 1 tick is 30 seconds. 0 means never auto stop. |

### Parameter 7: Customer Function



The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Using Notification Report |
| 16 | Using Sensor Binary Report |

The manufacturer defined default value is ```0``` (Using Notification Report).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_7_1_00000010``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 29: Disable Alarm



The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Enable Alarm |
| 1 | Disable Alarm |

The manufacturer defined default value is ```0``` (Enable Alarm).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_29_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 31: Alarm Duration

Play alarm sound duration, 1 tick is 30 seconds. 0 means never auto stop.

Values in the range 0 to 127 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```0```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_31_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The DCH-Z510 supports 1 association group.

### Group 1: Report Messages

The group 1 is for receiving the report message, like tamper event. This is the device's Lifeline group. The group supports 8 nodes maximum.
This group supports 8 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_BINARY_V1| Linked to BASIC|
| COMMAND_CLASS_SENSOR_BINARY_V0| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_GRP_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_DEVICE_RESET_LOCALLY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ZWAVEPLUS_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V0| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ALARM_V3| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_POWERLEVEL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_FIRMWARE_UPDATE_MD_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SECURITY_V0| |

### Documentation Links

* [User Manual](https://www.cd-jackson.com/zwave_device_uploads/330/DCH-Z510-Manual.pdf)

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [contribute to the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/330).
