---
layout: documentation
title: IM-20 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# IM-20 Door Sensor
This describes the Z-Wave device *IM-20*, manufactured by *Kaipule Technology Co., Ltd.* with the thing type UID of ```kaipule_im20_00_000```.

The device is in the category of *Door*, defining Door sensors.

The IM-20 supports routing. This allows the device to communicate using other routing enabled devices as intermediate routers.  This device is unable to participate in the routing of data from other devices.

The IM-20 does not permanently listen for messages sent from the controller - it will periodically wake up automatically to check if the controller has messages to send, but will sleep most of the time to conserve battery life. The wakeup period can be configured in the user interface - it is advisable not to make this too short as it will impact battery life - a reasonable compromise is 1 hour. The wakeup period does not impact the devices ability to report events or sensor data. The device can be manually woken with a button press on the device as described below - note that triggering a device to send an event is not the same as a wakeup notification, and this will not allow the controller to communicate with the device.

## Overview

Factory Setting  
Press the tamper switch 6 times in 2s, it will recover to factory setting after a period of time  
(Please use the reset procedure only when the primary controller is missing or inoperable)

### Inclusion Information

Enter the Inclusion Mode of gateway, and press the tamper switch 3 times within 1.5s,  
then the door sensor will stay in enrollment state until successfully enrolled into network or  
enrollment time out after 30s.

### Exclusion Information

Enter the Exclusion Mode of gateway, and press the tamper switch 3 times within  
1.5s, then the door sensor will be removed after a period of time.

### Wakeup Information

a) Manual Wake-up  
Quickly press tamper switch once, the door sensor will automatically send wake-up  
information, and there will be 10s after wake-up to receive gateway setting information.  
b) Automatic Wake-up  
Default time of automatic wake-up is 24 hours, and there will be 10s after wake-up to receive  
gateway setting information, the max automatic report time = 24 hours, minimum=30min

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the IM-20 -:

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Binary Sensor | sensor_binary | Door | Switch | 
| Alarm (burglar) | alarm_burglar | Door | Switch | 
| Alarm (access) | alarm_access | Door | Switch | 
| Battery Level | battery-level | Battery | Number |

### Binary Sensor

Indicates if a sensor has triggered.

The ```sensor_binary``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| ON | Triggered |
| OFF | Untriggered |

### Alarm (burglar)

Indicates if the burglar alarm is triggered.

The ```alarm_burglar``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OFF | Ok |
| ON | Alarm |

### Alarm (access)

Indicates if the access control alarm is triggered.

The ```alarm_access``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OFF | Ok |
| ON | Alarm |

### Battery Level

Represents the battery level as a percentage (0-100%). Bindings for things supporting battery level in a different format (e.g. 4 levels) should convert to a percentage to provide a consistent battery level reading.

The ```battery-level``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Battery``` category.



## Device Configuration

The device has no configuration parameters configured.

## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The IM-20 supports 1 association group.

### Group 1: Group 1


This group supports 2 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SENSOR_BINARY_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_GRP_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_DEVICE_RESET_LOCALLY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ZWAVEPLUS_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ALARM_V4| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_POWERLEVEL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BATTERY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_WAKE_UP_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V2| |

### Documentation Links

* [User Guide](https://www.cd-jackson.com/zwave_device_uploads/254/Kaipule-Technology-Co-IM-20.pdf)

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [contribute to the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/254).
