---
layout: documentation
title: ZEN24 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# ZEN24 Z-Wave Plus Toggle Dimmer Light Switch Ver 2.0
This describes the Z-Wave device *ZEN24*, manufactured by *Zooz* with the thing type UID of ```zooz_zen24_00_000```.

The device is in the category of Wall Switch, defining Any device attached to the wall that controls a binary status of something, for ex. a light switch.

# Overview
- Manual or remote on/off and dimming control from your mobile device or computer (when included to a Z-Wave gateway controller)
- Universal 3-way capability – works with existing 3-way switches as long as neutral is present
- Z-Wave Plus with improved 500 chip for faster and safer wireless communication
- Works with LED, CFL, and incandescent bulbs
- Remembers and restores on/off / brightness status after power failure
- Based on universal multilevel switch command class - supported by most Z-Wave controllers
- May be associated and grouped with other Z-Wave devices for advanced home automation
- Air-gap switch for added safety
- Classic toggle design
- Built-in Z-Wave signal repeater for a stronger, more reliable network

## Inclusion Information
1\. Bring your Z-Wave gateway hub or controller as close to the switch as possible

2\. Put your Z-Wave controller into inclusion mode

3\. Toggle the switch UP 3 times very quickly to finalize the inclusion process

4\. A new dimming device will appear on your controller's device list

**TROUBLESHOOTING TIPS:**

If you are unable to include the Z-Wave switch to your controller, please try one of the following:

- Bring the controller closer to your ZWave switch or use a hand-held secondary controller for inclusion
- Toggle your Z-Wave switch UP even quicker at least 5 or 7 times once you put the controller into inclusion mode to ensure the command has gone through
- Put your controller into EXCLUSION mode and toggle the switch DOWN 3 times quickly, then try adding it to your network again

## Exclusion Information
1\. Bring your Z-Wave gateway hub or controller as close to the switch as possible

2\. Put your Z-Wave controller into exclusion mode 3. Toggle the switch DOWN

3 times very quickly to complete the exclusion process

4\. The device will disappear from your controller's device list

Please repeat the process following all steps carefully if the first attempt is unsuccessful.

## Channels
The following table summarises the channels available for the ZEN24

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Dimmer | switch_dimmer | DimmableLight | Dimmer | 

### Dimmer
The ```switch_dimmer``` channel supports the ```Dimmer``` item and is in the ```DimmableLight``` category.



## Device Configuration
The following table provides a summary of the 1 configuration parameter available in the ZEN24.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 1 | Toggle Control | Controls behavior of the toggle switch |

### Parameter 1: Toggle Control
Controls behavior of the toggle switch
Choose if you want the to turn the light on by clicking the toggle up or down Values:

0 – Toggle up turns the light on, toggle down turns the light off (default);

1 – Toggle up turns the light off, toggle down turns the light on
Values in the range 0 to 1 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 0.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_1_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups
Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The ZEN24 supports 1 association group.

### Group 1: Lifeline

This group supports 5 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_MULTILEVEL_V1| Linked to BASIC|
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_ALL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_GRP_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_DEVICE_RESET_LOCALLY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ZWAVEPLUS_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_POWERLEVEL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V2| |

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [edit the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/789).
