---
layout: documentation
title: ZSE33 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# ZSE33 Smart Chime/Alarm
This describes the Z-Wave device *ZSE33*, manufactured by *[Zooz](http://www.getzooz.com/)* with the thing type UID of ```zooz_zse33_00_000```.

The ZSE33 supports routing. This allows the device to communicate using other routing enabled devices as intermediate routers.  This device is unable to participate in the routing of data from other devices.

## Overview

\- Audio and visual notifications triggered by other Z-Wave devices or scheduled in your routine

\- Choose from 10 different sounds for chime and siren modes

\- Advanced configuration available

\- Powerful long-lasting batteries

\- Z-Wave Plus with improved 500 chip for faster and safer wireless communication

\- Small size and quick installation

Model Number: ZSE33

Z-Wave Signal Frequency: 908.42 MHz

Power: 2 CR123 batteries (included)

Power Consumption: 2W

Operating Temperature: 32 – 104 F

Range: Up to 100 feet line of sight

Installation and Use: Indoor only

Dimensions: 2.7” x 1.2”

Weight: 3 oz

### Inclusion Information

Auto Inclusion:

1\. Put your Z-Wave controller in inclusion mode

2\. Carefully remove the cover from the device

3\. Remove the plastic pull-tab from the battery slot – the Chime will automatically enter inclusion mode for 20 seconds

4\. A new alarm siren / doorbell device will appear on your controller's device list

Manual Inclusion:

1\. Bring the Smart Chime within direct range of your controller

2\. Carefully remove the cover from the device

3\. Remove the plastic pull-tab from the battery slot. The LED indicator will blink slowly

4\. Put your Z-Wave controller in inclusion mode

5\. Press and release the Z-Wave button on the Smart Chime 3 TIMES quickly. The LED indicator

will flash quickly

6\. A new alarm siren / doorbell device will appear on your controller's device list (if it connects as an on/off switch, you may need to change the device type manually. Contact us for instructions).

### Exclusion Information

1\. Make sure the Smart Chime is powered on and located within direct range of your Z-Wave gateway controller

2\. Put your Z-Wave controller in exclusion mode

3\. Press and release the Z-Wave button 3 TIMES quickly. The LED indicator will flash quickly

4\. The Smart Chime should disappear from your controller's device list

If the first attempt is unsuccessful, please repeat the process following all steps carefully.

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the ZSE33 -:

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Switch | switch_binary | Switch | Switch | 
| Alarm | alarm_general | Door | Switch | 
| Battery Level | battery-level | Battery | Number |

### Switch

Switch the power on and off.

The ```switch_binary``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Switch``` category.

### Alarm

Indicates if an alarm is triggered.

The ```alarm_general``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OFF | Ok |
| ON | Alarm |

### Battery Level

Represents the battery level as a percentage (0-100%). Bindings for things supporting battery level in a different format (e.g. 4 levels) should convert to a percentage to provide a consistent battery level reading.

The ```battery-level``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Battery``` category.



## Device Configuration

The following table provides a summary of the 9 configuration parameters available in the ZSE33.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 1 | Siren Volume | 3 volume levels for the alarm siren sound. |
| 2 | Siren Alarm Duration | 5 modes to set the duration for siren alarm |
| 3 | Chime Sound Duration | how many times the chime should repeat the doorbell sound once triggered by a BASIC\_SET alarm command from a door sensor. |
| 4 | Chime Volume | 3 volume levels for the doorbell sound. Set volume to low, medium, or high. |
| 5 |  | 10 different tones for alarm siren |
| 6 | Chime Tone | 10 different tones for doorbell |
| 7 | Siren Alarm or Chime Mode | Switch between Siren Alarm (configu-red by parameters 1, 2, 5, 8) and Chime / Doorbell (parameters 3, 4, 6, 9) modes. |
| 8 | LED Notifications for Siren Alarm | Enable or disable visual alarm for Siren mode. The LED will blink when triggered. |
| 9 | LED Notifications for Chime | Enable or disable visual alarm for Chime mode. The LED will blink when triggered. |

### Parameter 1: Siren Volume

3 volume levels for the alarm siren sound.
Values: 1 – low, 2 – medium, 3 – high (default)
Values in the range 1 to 3 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```3```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_1_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 2: Siren Alarm Duration

5 modes to set the duration for siren alarm
0 – alarm is off

1 – alarm goes off for 30 seconds

2 – alarm goes off for 60 seconds

3 – alarm goes off for 5 minutes

255 – alarm continues until battery drains

Values: 0, 1 – 3, 255; 1 – default setting.
Values in the range 0 to 255 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```1```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_2_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 3: Chime Sound Duration

how many times the chime should repeat the doorbell sound once triggered by a BASIC\_SET alarm command from a door sensor.
Values: 0 – chime is off, 1 – 254 (cycles); 255 – chime

sound continues until battery drains; 2 – default setting.
Values in the range 0 to 255 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```2```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_3_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 4: Chime Volume

3 volume levels for the doorbell sound. Set volume to low, medium, or high.
Values: 1 – low, 2 – medium, 3 – high (default)
Values in the range 1 to 3 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```3```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_4_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 5: 

10 different tones for alarm siren
Values: 1-10; 10 – default setting.
Values in the range 1 to 10 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```10```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_5_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 6: Chime Tone

10 different tones for doorbell
Values: 1-10; 4 – default setting.
Values in the range 1 to 10 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```4```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_6_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 7: Siren Alarm or Chime Mode

Switch between Siren Alarm (configu-red by parameters 1, 2, 5, 8) and Chime / Doorbell (parameters 3, 4, 6, 9) modes.
Values: 1 – Siren Alarm enabled; 2 – Chime enabled (default).
Values in the range 1 to 2 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```2```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_7_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 8: LED Notifications for Siren Alarm

Enable or disable visual alarm for Siren mode. The LED will blink when triggered.
Values: 0 – LED disabled; 1 – LED enabled (default).
Values in the range 0 to 1 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```1```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_8_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 9: LED Notifications for Chime

Enable or disable visual alarm for Chime mode. The LED will blink when triggered.
Values: 0 – LED disabled (default); 1 – LED enabled.
Values in the range 0 to 1 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```1```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_9_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The device does not support associations.
## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_BINARY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_GRP_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_DEVICE_RESET_LOCALLY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ZWAVEPLUS_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ALARM_V8| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_POWERLEVEL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BATTERY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_INDICATOR_V1| |

### Documentation Links

* [Zooz ZSE33 Smart Chime User Manual](https://www.cd-jackson.com/zwave_device_uploads/638/zooz-z-wave-plus-smart-chime-zse33-user-manual-online.pdf)

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [contribute to the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/638).
