---
layout: documentation
title: DZR15 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# DZR15 Scene Capable Receptacle
This describes the Z-Wave device *DZR15*, manufactured by *Leviton* with the thing type UID of ```leviton_dzr15_00_000```.

The device is in the category of *Wall Switch*, defining Any device attached to the wall that controls a binary status of something, for ex. a light switch.

The DZR15 supports routing. This allows the device to communicate using other routing enabled devices as intermediate routers.  This device is also able to participate in the routing of data from other devices.

## Overview

No device information is provided in the database. Consider [updating the database](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/200) to improve the documentation.

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the DZR15 -:

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Switch | switch_binary | Switch | Switch | 
| Scene Number | scene_number |  | Number | 

### Switch

Switch the power on and off.

The ```switch_binary``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Switch``` category.

### Scene Number

Triggers when a scene button is pressed.

The ```scene_number``` channel supports the ```Number``` item.



## Device Configuration

The device has no configuration parameters configured.

## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The device does not support associations.
## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_BINARY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_ALL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SCENE_ACTIVATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SCENE_ACTUATOR_CONF_V0| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_POWERLEVEL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_NODE_NAMING_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_PROPRIETARY_V0| |

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [contribute to the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/200).
