---
layout: documentation
title: ZDM230 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# ZDM230 HomePro Wall Dimmer ZDM230
This describes the Z-Wave device *ZDM230*, manufactured by *ACT - Advanced Control Technologies* with the thing type UID of ```act_zdm230_00_000```.

The ZDM230 supports routing. This allows the device to communicate using other routing enabled devices as intermediate routers.  This device is also able to participate in the routing of data from other devices.

## Overview

Radio Frequency (RF) Controlled, 500W, 230 VAC, European Wall Mounted, 3-Way Dimmer Receiver, Dual Switch, Release 1.1

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the ZDM230 -:

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Dimmer | switch_dimmer | DimmableLight | Dimmer | 

### Dimmer

The brightness channel allows to control the brightness of a light.
            It is also possible to switch the light on and off.

The ```switch_dimmer``` channel supports the ```Dimmer``` item and is in the ```DimmableLight``` category.



## Device Configuration

The following table provides a summary of the 3 configuration parameters available in the ZDM230.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 1 | Ignore Start-Level (Transmitting) | Dimmers controlled by this switch will start dimming from their current level. |
| 2 | Suspend group 4 | Disable transmitting commands to Z-Wave devices that are in Group 4 without disassociating those devices from the group. |
| 3 | Night Light | n night-light mode the LED on the switch will turn ON when the switch is turned OFF. |
|  | Switch All Mode | Set the mode for the switch when receiving SWITCH ALL commands |

### Parameter 1: Ignore Start-Level (Transmitting)

Dimmers controlled by this switch will start dimming from their current level.
Set ignore start level bit when transmitting dim commands. The ZDM230 can send Dim commands to Z-Wave enabled dimmers. The Dim command has a start level embedded in it. A dimmer receiving this command will start dimming from that start level. However, the command also has a bit that indicates whether the dimmer should ignore the start level. If the bit is set to 1, the dimmer will ignore the start level and instead start dimming from its current level. If this bit is set to 0, the dimmer will not ignore the start level.
The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | No |
| 1 | Yes |

The manufacturer defined default value is ```1``` (Yes).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_1_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 2: Suspend group 4

Disable transmitting commands to Z-Wave devices that are in Group 4 without disassociating those devices from the group.
You may wish to disable transmitting commands to Z-Wave devices that are in Group 4 without “disassociating” those devices from the group. Setting parameter 2 to the value of 1 will stop the ZDM230 from transmitting to devices that are “associated” into Group 4. It is possible that you may only want the units in Group 4 to track when the dimmer is being turned ON and OFF and not when dimming.
The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | No |
| 1 | Yes |

The manufacturer defined default value is ```0``` (No).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_2_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 3: Night Light

n night-light mode the LED on the switch will turn ON when the switch is turned OFF.
The LED on the ZDM230 will by default, turn ON when the load attached is turned ON. To make the LED turn ON when the load attached is turned OFF instead, set parameter 3 to a value of 1.
The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | No |
| 1 | Yes |

The manufacturer defined default value is ```0``` (No).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_3_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.

### Switch All Mode

Set the mode for the switch when receiving SWITCH ALL commands.

The following option values may be configured -:
| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Exclude from All On and All Off groups |
| 1 | Include in All On group |
| 2 | Include in All Off group |
| 255 | Include in All On and All Off groups |

This parameter has the configuration ID ```switchall_mode``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The ZDM230 supports 4 association groups.

### Group 1: Group 1

Left paddle
This group supports 5 nodes.

### Group 2: Group 2

Right Paddle
This group supports 5 nodes.

### Group 3: Group 3

Right double click paddle
This group supports 5 nodes.

### Group 4: Group 4

Group used to inform devices about status updates
This group supports 5 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_MULTILEVEL_V1| Linked to BASIC|
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_ALL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_POWERLEVEL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V1| |

### Documentation Links

* [Manual](https://www.cd-jackson.com/zwave_device_uploads/362/ZDM230-spec.pdf)

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [contribute to the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/362).
