---
layout: documentation
title: ZIR010 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# ZIR010 PIR Motion Sensor
This describes the Z-Wave device *ZIR010*, manufactured by *ACT - Advanced Control Technologies* with the thing type UID of ```act_zir010_00_000```.

The ZIR010 supports routing. This allows the device to communicate using other routing enabled devices as intermediate routers.  This device is unable to participate in the routing of data from other devices.

The ZIR010 does not permanently listen for messages sent from the controller - it will periodically wake up automatically to check if the controller has messages to send, but will sleep most of the time to conserve battery life. The wakeup period can be configured in the user interface - it is advisable not to make this too short as it will impact battery life - a reasonable compromise is 1 hour. The wakeup period does not impact the devices ability to report events or sensor data. The device can be manually woken with a button press on the device as described below - note that triggering a device to send an event is not the same as a wakeup notification, and this will not allow the controller to communicate with the device.

## Overview

No device information is provided in the database. Consider [updating the database](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/189) to improve the documentation.

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the ZIR010 -:

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Binary Sensor | sensor_binary | Door | Switch | 
| Alarm | alarm_general | Door | Switch | 
| Battery Level | battery-level | Battery | Number |

### Binary Sensor

Indicates if a sensor has triggered.

The ```sensor_binary``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| ON | Triggered |
| OFF | Untriggered |

### Alarm

Indicates if an alarm is triggered.

The ```alarm_general``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OFF | Ok |
| ON | Alarm |

### Battery Level

Represents the battery level as a percentage (0-100%). Bindings for things supporting battery level in a different format (e.g. 4 levels) should convert to a percentage to provide a consistent battery level reading.

The ```battery-level``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Battery``` category.



## Device Configuration

The following table provides a summary of the 4 configuration parameters available in the ZIR010.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 17 | Mode | Notification modes: 0=light, 1=alarm, 2=sensor |
| 18 | Off/Idle delay | Configuring the off/idle delay |
| 19 | Unsolicited Commands | Disabling the zir010 trom sending commands unsolicited |
| 22 | Awake Time | Duration ranges from 15 to 45 seconds. Valid values range from 15 to 45. |
|  | Wakeup Interval | Sets the interval at which the device will accept commands from the controller |
|  | Wakeup Node | Sets the node ID of the device to receive the wakeup notifications |

### Parameter 17: Mode

Notification modes: 0=light, 1=alarm, 2=sensor
The ZIR010 can be configured to operate in 1 of 3 modes. Those modes are:

• Lighting Mode (factory default)  
• Alarm Mode  
• Sensor Mode

To change the mode of operation:  
For Lighting Mode: Send a value of 0 to Configuration Parameter #17.  
For Alarm Mode: Send a value of 1 to Configuration Parameter #17.  
For Sensor Mode: Send a value of 2 to Configuration Parameter # 17.
The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Lightning |
| 1 | Alarm |
| 2 | Sensor |

The manufacturer defined default value is ```0``` (Lightning).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_17_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 18: Off/Idle delay

Configuring the off/idle delay
OFF/IDLE (Applicable only when the ZIR010 is configured for Lighting or Binary Sensor Mode).

The ZIR010 will consider there to be “No Activity” after 2 minutes passes during which the ZIR010 detected no motion. At that point, the ZIR010 can be configured to immediately send the OFF or IDLE command or it can be configured to send it from 1 minute to 255 minutes later. (+/- 1 minute).
Values in the range 0 to 255 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```1```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_18_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 19: Unsolicited Commands

Disabling the zir010 trom sending commands unsolicited
The ZIR010 can be disabled from sending commands unsolicited without removing associated devices by setting Configuration Parameter # 19 to 0 (when asked for number of bytes, select 1). Setting it back to 1 will re-enable the ZIR010.
The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | disabled |
| 1 | enabled |

The manufacturer defined default value is ```1``` (enabled).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_19_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 22: Awake Time

Duration ranges from 15 to 45 seconds. Valid values range from 15 to 45.
The ZIR010 will send a Wakeup Notification Command approximately 3 minutes after power up IF and only IF it has been included into a Z-Wave network. From that point on, the ZIR010 will wake up every 4 hours and re-send the Wakeup Notification Command unless configured for another time interval. The ZIR010 will stay awake by default for 30 seconds and then go back to sleep to conserve battery life.

The time interval between Wakeup Notification Commands can be adjusted if you have a device that supports this. Refer to that device’s instructions.

The time the ZIR010 stays awake can be adjusted from 15 seconds to 45 seconds by sending a value of 15 to 45 to the ZIR010 using Configuration Parameter # 22 (when asked for the number of bytes, select 1). This awake time period starts over every time the ZIR010 receives a command or request.
Values in the range 15 to 45 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```30```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_22_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.

### Wakeup Interval

The wakeup interval sets the period at which the device will listen for messages from the controller. This is required for battery devices that sleep most of the time in order to conserve battery life. The device will wake up at this interval and send a message to the controller to tell it that it can accept messages - after a few seconds, it will go back to sleep if there is no further communications. 

This setting is defined in *seconds*. It is advisable not to set this interval too short or it could impact battery life. A period of 1 hour (3600 seconds) is suitable in most instances.

Note that this setting does not affect the devices ability to send sensor data, or notification events.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```wakeup_interval``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.

### Wakeup Node

When sleeping devices wake up, they send a notification to a listening device. Normally, this device is the network controller, and normally the controller will set this automatically to its own address.
In the event that the network contains multiple controllers, it may be necessary to configure this to a node that is not the main controller. This is an advanced setting and should not be changed without a full understanding of the impact.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```wakeup_node``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The ZIR010 supports 3 association groups.

### Group 1: Motion


This group supports 5 nodes.

### Group 2: Tamper


This group supports 5 nodes.

### Group 3: Battery


This group supports 5 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SENSOR_BINARY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ALARM_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BATTERY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_WAKE_UP_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V1| |

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [contribute to the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/189).
