---
layout: documentation
title: SD-L1000-CH - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# SD-L1000-CH Yale Conexis L1
This describes the Z-Wave device *SD-L1000-CH*, manufactured by *ASSA ABLOY* with the thing type UID of ```yale_ycl1_00_000```.

The device is in the category of Lock, defining Devices whose primary pupose is locking something.

# Overview
The future of Door Locks is here
================================

Open the door to your world with the Conexis(R) L1 Smart Door Lock. The Smart Door Lock that puts you fully in control giving you the freedom to secure your home without the need for a key.

Send & Receive Virtual Keys
---------------------------

Control access from your smartphone

Keyless
-------

Say goodbye to your keys

In-App Control
--------------

Control access from your smartphone

## Inclusion Information
1. Ensure the Z-Wave controller is close to the lock, around 1.5m.
2. Remove the upper plastic cover from the lock, on the interior side.
3. Set the controller into inclusion mode.
4. Press the reset 'R' button 3 times in 1.5s (3 quick presses), the lock will beep twice.
5. Upon connection, the lock will play 3 notes.

## Exclusion Information
1. Remove the upper plastic cover from the lock, on the interior side.
2. Set the controller into exclusion mode.
3. Press the reset 'R' button 3 times in 1.5s (3 quick presses), the lock will beep twice.
4. Upon successful exclusion, the lock will play 3 notes.

## Channels
The following table summarises the channels available for the SD-L1000-CH

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Door Lock | lock_door | Door | Switch | 
| Alarm | alarm_general | Door | Switch | 
| Clock Time Offset | time_offset | Temperature | Number | 

### Door Lock
The ```lock_door``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category.

### Alarm
The ```alarm_general``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OFF | Ok |
| ON | Alarm |

### Clock Time Offset
The ```time_offset``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Temperature``` category.



## Device Configuration
The following table provides a summary of the 5 configuration parameters available in the SD-L1000-CH.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 1 | Volume | Beep volume |
| 2 | Auto Re-lock | The lock will re-lock automatically if untouched for the timeout |
| 3 | Re-lock time | The amount of time which the lock will wait before re-locking |
| 4 | Wrong tag limit | Number of wrong tags that can be tried before stand-down |
| 7 | Wrong tag timeout | Time after the wrong tag limit being exceeded before re-trying |

### Parameter 1: Volume
Beep volume
1 = Silent mode

2 = Low volume

3 = High volume (default)
The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 1 | Silent |
| 2 | Low |
| 3 | High |

The manufacturer defined default value is 3 (High).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_1_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 2: Auto Re-lock
The lock will re-lock automatically if untouched for the timeout
0 = No auto re-lock (default)

255 = auto re-lock
The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Off |
| 255 | On |

The manufacturer defined default value is 0 (Off).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_2_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 3: Re-lock time
The amount of time which the lock will wait before re-locking
Re-lock time in seconds
Values in the range 7 to 60 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 30.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_3_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 4: Wrong tag limit
Number of wrong tags that can be tried before stand-down
Number of wrong tags that can be tried before stand-down
Values in the range 1 to 20 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 20.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_4_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 7: Wrong tag timeout
Time after the wrong tag limit being exceeded before re-trying
Amount of time after the wrong tag limit being exceeded that the lock will stand-down for
Values in the range 1 to 250 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 250.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_7_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups
Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The SD-L1000-CH supports 1 association group.

### Group 1: Lifeline
Z-Wave Plus Lifeline
This group supports 1 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V0| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_DOOR_LOCK_LOGGING_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_GRP_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_DEVICE_RESET_LOCALLY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ZWAVEPLUS_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_DOOR_LOCK_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ALARM_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_POWERLEVEL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_FIRMWARE_UPDATE_MD_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BATTERY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_TIME_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_TIME_PARAMETERS_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SECURITY_V1| |

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [edit the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/838).
