---
layout: documentation
title: YRD110 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# YRD110 Yale button deadbolt without keyway
This describes the Z-Wave device *YRD110*, manufactured by *ASSA ABLOY* with the thing type UID of ```yale_yrd110_00_000```.

The device is in the category of *Lock*, defining Devices whose primary pupose is locking something.

The YRD110 supports routing. This allows the device to communicate using other routing enabled devices as intermediate routers.  This device is unable to participate in the routing of data from other devices.

## Overview

No device information is provided in the database. Consider [updating the database](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/302) to improve the documentation.

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the YRD110 -:

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Door Lock | lock_door | Door | Switch | 
| Alarm (access) | alarm_access | Door | Switch | 
| Alarm (power) | alarm_power | Door | Switch | 
| Alarm (raw) | alarm_raw |  | String | 
| Clock Time Offset | time_offset | Temperature | Number | 

### Door Lock

Lock and unlock the door.

The ```lock_door``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category.

### Alarm (access)

Indicates if the access control alarm is triggered.

The ```alarm_access``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OFF | Ok |
| ON | Alarm |

### Alarm (power)

Indicates if a power alarm is triggered.

The ```alarm_power``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OFF | Ok |
| ON | Alarm |

### Alarm (raw)

Provides alarm parameters as json string.

The ```alarm_raw``` channel supports the ```String``` item. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

### Clock Time Offset

Provides the current time difference for the devices time.

The ```time_offset``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Temperature``` category.



## Device Configuration

The following table provides a summary of the 6 configuration parameters available in the YRD110.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 1 | Volume | Volume of beeps |
| 2 | Auto relock | Auto relocking after unlocked |
| 3 | Auto relock time | Time for auto relock |
| 4 | Wrong code limit | Number of incorrect PINs before lockout |
| 7 | Shutdown time | Incorrect attempts shutdown time |
| 8 | Operation Mode | Operation Mode |
|  | Lock Timeout | Sets the time after which the door will auto lock |

### Parameter 1: Volume

Volume of beeps

The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 |  |
| 1 | Loud |
| 3 | Silent |

The manufacturer defined default value is ```1``` (Loud).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_1_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 2: Auto relock

Auto relocking after unlocked

The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | No auto-relock |
| 255 | Auto relock |

The manufacturer defined default value is ```0``` (No auto-relock).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_2_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 3: Auto relock time

Time for auto relock
Amount of seconds between the door is unlocked and when it automatically attempts to re-lock itself, when auto-relocking is enabled.
Values in the range 5 to 255 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```30```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_3_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 4: Wrong code limit

Number of incorrect PINs before lockout
Number of incorrect PINs that can be keyed in before lock goes into temporary keypad lockout mode.
Values in the range 1 to 7 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```5```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_4_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 7: Shutdown time

Incorrect attempts shutdown time
Amount of time lock should ignore the keypad, if the number of incorrect PINs is exceeded. (Can still be locked and unlocked by zwave while in shutdown.)This is an advanced parameter and will therefore not show in the user interface without entering advanced mode.
Values in the range 1 to 255 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```60```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_7_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.
This is a read only parameter.


### Parameter 8: Operation Mode

Operation Mode
This is an advanced parameter and will therefore not show in the user interface without entering advanced mode.
The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Normal |
| 1 | vacation |
| 2 | privacy |

The manufacturer defined default value is ```0``` (Normal).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_8_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.

### Lock Timeout

Sets the time after which the door will auto lock.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```doorlock_timeout``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The YRD110 supports 1 association group.

### Group 1: Receive Alarms

Group that will receive alarm notices from the lock
This group supports 5 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_DOOR_LOCK_LOGGING_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SCHEDULE_ENTRY_LOCK_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_DOOR_LOCK_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_USER_CODE_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ALARM_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_PROTECTION_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_TIME_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_TIME_PARAMETERS_V1| |

### Documentation Links

* [Installation manual](https://www.cd-jackson.com/zwave_device_uploads/302/Yale-AYRD-110-INST-FUL-Rev-C--06-14--curves.pdf)
* [Yale Zwave Developer's Manual](https://www.cd-jackson.com/zwave_device_uploads/302/Yale-Real-Living-300-ZWave-CC-Specs-10OCT12.pdf)

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [contribute to the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/302).
