---
layout: documentation
title: YRD210 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# YRD210 Push Button Deadbolt
This describes the Z-Wave device *YRD210*, manufactured by *ASSA ABLOY* with the thing type UID of ```yale_yrd210_00_000```.

The device is in the category of Lock, defining Devices whose primary pupose is locking something.

# Overview


## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the YRD210

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Alarm | alarm_general | Door | Switch | 
| Alarm Raw | alarm_raw |  | String | 

### Alarm

The ```alarm_general``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OFF | Ok |
| ON | Alarm |

### Alarm Raw

The ```alarm_raw``` channel supports the ```String``` item. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.



## Device Configuration

The following table provides a summary of the 7 configuration parameters available in the YRD210.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 1 | Audio Mode |  |
| 2 | Auto relock |  |
| 3 | Relock time | Seconds; after successful code entry and unit unlocks, it will automatically re-lock after specified time |
| 4 | Wrong Code Entry Limit | The number of invalid code entries lock will accept before sending TAMPER Alarm. When number of wrong code entries is exceeded, lock will disable keypad for the time specified by Shutdown Time parameter. |
| 5 | Language |  |
| 7 | Shutdown Time | Number of seconds unit will be inoperable after number of wrong code entries is exceeded. |
| 8 | Operating Mode |  |

### Parameter 1: Audio Mode



The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 1 | Silent |
| 2 | Low |
| 3 | High |

The manufacturer defined default value is 3 (High).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_1_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 2: Auto relock



The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Off |
| 255 | On |

The manufacturer defined default value is 255 (On).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_2_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 3: Relock time

Seconds; after successful code entry and unit unlocks, it will automatically re-lock after specified time

Values in the range 5 to 255 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 30.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_3_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 4: Wrong Code Entry Limit

The number of invalid code entries lock will accept before sending TAMPER Alarm. When number of wrong code entries is exceeded, lock will disable keypad for the time specified by Shutdown Time parameter.

Values in the range 1 to 7 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 5.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_4_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 5: Language



The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 1 | English |
| 2 | Spanish |
| 3 | French |

The manufacturer defined default value is 1 (English).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_5_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 7: Shutdown Time

Number of seconds unit will be inoperable after number of wrong code entries is exceeded.

Values in the range 1 to 255 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 30.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_7_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 8: Operating Mode


Normal Mode

Vacation Mode - all user codes disabled

Privacy Mode - all user codes disabled and RF Lock/Unlock disabled
The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Normal |
| 1 | Vacation |
| 2 | Privacy |

The manufacturer defined default value is 0 (Normal).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_8_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The YRD210 supports 1 association group.

### Group 1: Alarm Reports


This group supports 4 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_DOOR_LOCK_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_USER_CODE_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ALARM_V1| Linked to BASIC|
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_PROTECTION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_LOCK_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BATTERY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SECURITY_V1| |

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [edit the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/235).
