---
layout: documentation
title: ASP-3-1 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# ASP-3-1 Smart Plug
This describes the Z-Wave device *ASP-3-1*, manufactured by *[ID-RF](http://www.nodon.fr/)* with the thing type UID of ```nodon_asp31_00_000```.

The ASP-3-1 supports routing. This allows the device to communicate using other routing enabled devices as intermediate routers.  This device is also able to participate in the routing of data from other devices.

## Overview

"Learning Mode"
===============

Press on the Smart Plug button during 2 seconds until the LED becomes red. Release the button, the LED will then glow in red. The Smart Plug is in “Learning mode”. To add or to remove the Smart Plug from a Z-Wave® network, follow “INCLUSION” or “EXCLUSION” procedures below.

If the Smart Plug is not added or removed from a network within 30 seconds (or if the button is pushed during learning mode), the Smart Plug will automatically exit learning mode.

“Factory Reset”
===============

To perform a factory reset, press on the Smart Plug button during 5 seconds until the LED becomes orange. Release the button, the LED will blink red/green. Factory Reset clears the Smart Plug’s memory and set parameters to default value.

Please use this procedure only when the primary controller is missing or otherwise inoperable. Resetting the Smart Plug does not mean it has been removed from Z-Wave network controller’s memory. Use the primary controller to remove the Smart Plug from its Z-Wave network (follow “EXCLUSION” procedures below), before doing a Factory Reset.

### Inclusion Information

To add the Smart Plug into a Z-Wave network:

1. Plug the Smart Plug.
2. Put the Smart Plug in “Learning mode”.
3. Within 30 seconds put the Z-Wave Controller in “Learning mode” (See the Controller user guide for its own Inclusion procedure).
4. The Smart Plug will confirm the Inclusion procedure by blinking its LED in Green.

### Exclusion Information

To remove the Smart Plug from a Z-Wave network:

1. Make sure the Smart Plug is plugged.
2. Put the Smart Plug in “Learning mode”.
3. Within 30 seconds put the Z-Wave Controller in “Learning mode” (See the Controller user guide for its own Exclusion procedure).
4. The Smart Plug will confirm the Exclusion procedure by blinking its LED in Red.

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the ASP-3-1 -:

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Switch | switch_binary | Switch | Switch | 
| Alarm (system) | alarm_system |  | Switch | 
| Alarm (power) | alarm_power | Door | Switch | 

### Switch

Switch the power on and off.

The ```switch_binary``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Switch``` category.

### Alarm (system)

DELETE ME (alarm\_system seems to be unsupported)

Indicates if a system alarm is triggered.

The ```alarm_system``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OFF | Ok |
| ON | Alarm |

### Alarm (power)

Indicates if a power alarm is triggered.

The ```alarm_power``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OFF | Ok |
| ON | Alarm |



## Device Configuration

The following table provides a summary of the 4 configuration parameters available in the ASP-3-1.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 1 | Default State |  |
| 2 | Power Failure |  |
| 3 | Follow State |  |
| 4 | Always On |  |
|  | Switch All Mode | Set the mode for the switch when receiving SWITCH ALL commands |

### Parameter 1: Default State


Status of the Smart Plug after a Power Failure or after being plugged
The following option values may be configured, in addition to values in the range 0 to 63 -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | OFF |
| 1 | ON |
| 2 | Status before Power Failure |

The manufacturer defined default value is ```2``` (Status before Power Failure).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_1_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 2: Power Failure


This parameter is to set-up the Power Failure / Recover notification and the associated group (Groups 4, 5, 6, 7, 8).

The value may be a sum of available values. For example, if you want to activate Power Failure and enable group 4 & 5, the parameter value should be 1+2+4=7.
The following option values may be configured, in addition to values in the range 0 to 63 -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Power Failure detection disable |
| 1 | Power Failure enable (report to Lifeline only) |
| 2 | Enable group 4 |
| 4 | Enable group 5 |
| 8 | Enable group 6 |
| 16 | Enable group 7 |
| 32 | Enable group 8 |

The manufacturer defined default value is ```0``` (Power Failure detection disable).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_2_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 3: Follow State



The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Disable group 2 & 3 |
| 1 | Enable group 2 |
| 2 | Enable group 3 |
| 3 | Enable group 2 & 3 |

The manufacturer defined default value is ```3``` (Enable group 2 & 3).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_3_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 4: Always On



The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Always ON disabled |
| 1 | Always ON enabled |

The manufacturer defined default value is ```0``` (Always ON disabled).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_4_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.

### Switch All Mode

Set the mode for the switch when receiving SWITCH ALL commands.

The following option values may be configured -:
| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Exclude from All On and All Off groups |
| 1 | Include in All On group |
| 2 | Include in All Off group |
| 255 | Include in All On and All Off groups |

This parameter has the configuration ID ```switchall_mode``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The ASP-3-1 supports 8 association groups.

### Group 1: Lifeline


This group supports 5 nodes.

### Group 2: Follow State


This group supports 5 nodes.

### Group 3: Follow Complementary State


This group supports 5 nodes.

### Group 4: Power Failure Notification


This group supports 5 nodes.

### Group 5: Power Failure Set ON


This group supports 5 nodes.

### Group 6: Power Failure Set OFF


This group supports 5 nodes.

### Group 7: Power Recover Set ON


This group supports 5 nodes.

### Group 8: Power Recover Set OFF


This group supports 5 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_BINARY_V1| Linked to BASIC|
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_ALL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_GRP_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_DEVICE_RESET_LOCALLY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ZWAVEPLUS_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ALARM_V3| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_POWERLEVEL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_PROTECTION_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_INDICATOR_V1| |

### Documentation Links

* [User Guide (en)](https://www.cd-jackson.com/zwave_device_uploads/425/NodOn-SmartPlug-ZWave-UserGuide-EN.pdf)

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [contribute to the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/425).
