---
layout: documentation
title: TZ68 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# TZ68 Wall Plug
This describes the Z-Wave device *TZ68*, manufactured by *TKB Home* with the thing type UID of ```tkb_tz68_00_000```.

The device is in the category of Power Outlet, defining Small devices to be plugged into a power socket in a wall which stick there.

# Overview

The TKB TZ68 is a switch plug that can be placed between a wall outlet and electric devices, plugged in by cord. It can switch all loads up to 3500 W. The device is IP 20 rated and can therefore only be used in dry environments.

## Inclusion Information

To confirm Inclusion hit the button on the device.

## Exclusion Information

To confirm Exclusion hit the button on the device.

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the TZ68

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Switch | switch_binary | Switch | Switch | 

### Switch

The ```switch_binary``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Switch``` category.



## Device Configuration

The following table provides a summary of the 2 configuration parameters available in the TZ68.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 1 | LED Behavior | defines the behavior of the blue LED |
| 2 | Memory function | Memory function behaviour control. |

### Parameter 1: LED Behavior

defines the behavior of the blue LED

The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | blue indicates off (default) |
| 1 | blue indicates on |

The manufacturer defined default value is 1 (blue indicates on).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_1_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 2: Memory function

Memory function behaviour control.
Control whether or not the plug shall remember it's state after power has been taken away.
The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | do not remember |
| 1 | do remember state (default) |

The manufacturer defined default value is 1 (do remember state (default)).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_2_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The device does not support associations.
## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_BINARY_V1| Linked to BASIC|
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_ALL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V1| |

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [edit the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/159).
