---
layout: documentation
title: HA-01C - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# HA-01C In-Wall Dual Receptacle
This describes the Z-Wave device *HA-01C*, manufactured by *Intermatic* with the thing type UID of ```intermatic_ha01c_00_000```.

The HA-01C does not permanently listening for messages sent from the controller - it will periodically wake up automatically to check if the controller has messages to send, but will sleep most of the time to conserve battery life. The wakeup period can be configured in the user interface - it is advisable not to make this too short as it will impact battery life - a reasonable compromise is 1 hour. The wakeup period does not impact the devices ability to report events or sensor data. The device can be manually woken with a button press on the device as described below - note that triggering a device to send an event is not the same as a wakeup notification, and this will not allow the controller to communicate with the device.

## Overview

The Intermatic HA01C Wall Receptacle is an in­-wall Z-­Wave switch that can be controlled to automatically and wirelessly to replace an existing receptacle to control lamps, or small appliances. It also works as a range extender for your other Z-­Wave devices. This In-Wall receptacle features two plug receptacles, both of which provide standard power operation, only the bottom plug in the outlet is controllable by Z-Wave. Ratings: 15 A, 125 VAC, 50/60 Hz Operating Temperature Range: 32°F to 104°F / 0°C to 40°C Radio Operating Frequency: 908.42 MHz RF (wireless) Range: 50-100 ft. under normal operating conditions

### Inclusion Information

After hard-wiring the HA01 into place, the device is ready to join your Z-Wave™ network.

NOTE: Before you begin, devices (such as lamps) should be plugged in and turned ON before including the HA01 in your network. Put the controller into INCLUSION mode. Press the ON/OFF/PROGRAM button on the HA01 In-Wall Receptacle.

### Exclusion Information

If necessary, you can delete the HA01 In-Wall Receptacle from your Z-Wave™ network. Put the controller into EXCLUSION mode. Press the ON/OFF/PROGRAM button on the HA01 In-Wall Receptacle.

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the HA-01C

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Switch | switch_binary | Switch | Switch | 

### Switch

Switch the power on and off

The ```switch_binary``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Switch``` category.



## Device Configuration

The device has no configuration parameters configured.

## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The device does not support associations.
## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_BINARY_V1| Linked to BASIC|
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_ALL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V1| |

### Documentation Links

* [Internatic HA01 In-Wall Receptacle Manual](https://www.cd-jackson.com/zwave_device_uploads/304/Intermatic-HA01C-manual.pdf)

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [contribute to the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/304).
