---
layout: documentation
title: 004407 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# 004407 CO Detector
This describes the Z-Wave device *004407*, manufactured by *Popp & Co* with the thing type UID of ```popp_004407_01_000```.
This version of the device is limited to firmware versions above 1.0

# Overview

This product combines a certified carbon monoxide detector with a plug-in Z-Wave module to form a wirelessly reporting carbon monoxide sensor. The carbon monoxide detector is certified according to EN 50270:1999, EN 60335-1:1994 as well as EN 50291:2001 and satisfies all contemporary legal requirements.

There is no defined level of carbon monoxide that will result in an alarm. The danger of CO is a result of the total level of CO in the air plus the duration of exposure. A Z-Wave alarm will be sent out when one of the following conditions were met:

- CO level above 43 ppm for a duration of 60 minutes
- CO level above 80 ppm for a duration of 10 minutes
- CO level above 150 ppm for a duration of 2 minutes

## Inclusion Information

Pressing the Z-Wave button for one second includes the device. If the button is pressed for at least 2 seconds, the inclusion will be done without the Security Command Class.

## Exclusion Information

A single click on the Z-Wave button will exclude the device.

## Wakeup Information

Wakeup is done by single push of the Z-Wave button

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the 004407

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Binary Sensor | sensor_binary | Door | Switch | 
| Sensor (CARBON_MONOXIDE) | sensor_co |  | Number | 
| Alarm (system) | alarm_system |  | Switch | 
| Alarm (burglar) | alarm_burglar | Door | Switch | 
| Alarm (CO) | alarm_co | Door | Switch | 
| Alarm (general) | alarm_general | Door | Switch | 

### Binary Sensor

The ```sensor_binary``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| ON | Triggered |
| OFF | Untriggered |

### Sensor (CARBON_MONOXIDE)

The ```sensor_co``` channel supports the ```Number``` item. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

### Alarm (system)

The ```alarm_system``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OFF | Ok |
| ON | Alarm |

### Alarm (burglar)

The ```alarm_burglar``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OFF | Ok |
| ON | Alarm |

### Alarm (CO)

The ```alarm_co``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OFF | Ok |
| ON | Alarm |

### Alarm (general)

The ```alarm_general``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OFF | Ok |
| ON | Alarm |



## Device Configuration

The following table provides a summary of the 2 configuration parameters available in the 004407.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 1 | Value of ON-Command |  |
| 2 | Value of OFF-Command |  |

### Parameter 1: Value of ON-Command



Values in the range 0 to 99 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 99.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_1_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 2: Value of OFF-Command



Values in the range 0 to 99 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 0.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_2_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The 004407 supports 2 association groups.

### Group 1: Lifeline


This group supports 10 nodes.

### Group 2: Switching Command when Alarm


This group supports 10 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SENSOR_BINARY_V2| Linked to BASIC|
| COMMAND_CLASS_SENSOR_MULTILEVEL_V7| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_GRP_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_DEVICE_RESET_LOCALLY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ZWAVEPLUS_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ALARM_V5| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_POWERLEVEL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_FIRMWARE_UPDATE_MD_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BATTERY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_WAKE_UP_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V2| |

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [edit the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/456).
