---
layout: documentation
title: 009501 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# 009501 Popp 09501 Flow Stop
This describes the Z-Wave device *009501*, manufactured by *Popp & Co* with the thing type UID of ```popp_009501_01_002```.
This version of the device is limited to firmware version 1.2

The 009501 does not permanently listen for messages sent from the controller - it will periodically wake up automatically to check if the controller has messages to send, but will sleep most of the time to conserve battery life. The wakeup period can be configured in the user interface - it is advisable not to make this too short as it will impact battery life - a reasonable compromise is 1 hour. The wakeup period does not impact the devices ability to report events or sensor data. The device can be manually woken with a button press on the device as described below - note that triggering a device to send an event is not the same as a wakeup notification, and this will not allow the controller to communicate with the device.

## Overview

The Flow Stop moves the operating handle of a ball valve allowing to stopping the flow of gas or water. It can be mounted non-intrusive on any pipe size between 0.5 and 1.5 inch. This means the original water or gas pipe will not be opened or manipulated and it is possible to remove the Flow stop again without any damage to the water or gas pipe. Installing the Flow stop will not tamper or change any security measure applied or your gas or water installation.  
The device is equipped with a powerful 12 V motor providing sufficient torque to open or close any ball valve within 10 seconds. A complete manual operation of the valve remains possible due to the clutch release bearing.

### Inclusion Information

For inclusion press the red button on the top of the enclosure 3 times

### Exclusion Information

For exclusion press the red button on the top of the enclosure 3 times

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the 009501 -:

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Switch | switch_binary | Switch | Switch | 
| Dimmer | switch_dimmer | DimmableLight | Dimmer | 

### Switch

Switch the power on and off.

The ```switch_binary``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Switch``` category.

### Dimmer

The brightness channel allows to control the brightness of a light.
            It is also possible to switch the light on and off.

The ```switch_dimmer``` channel supports the ```Dimmer``` item and is in the ```DimmableLight``` category.



## Device Configuration

The following table provides a summary of the 2 configuration parameters available in the 009501.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 0 | LED Status | No help available, self explanatory.... |
| 1 | Shut-off controller behavior | The parameter defines how to control the shut-off controller. |

### Parameter 0: LED Status

No help available, self explanatory....
0: LED always ON (Only on operation OFF)  
1: LED always OFF (Only on operation ON)
Values in the range 0 to 1 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```0```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_0_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 1: Shut-off controller behavior

The parameter defines how to control the shut-off controller.
0: Remote and manually open/close  
1: Remote open/close only  
2: Only remote open; only manually closing  
3: Only manually open; only remote closing  
4: Manually open/close only
Values in the range 0 to 4 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```0```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_1_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The 009501 supports 2 association groups.

### Group 1: LifeLine


This group supports 10 nodes.

### Group 2: Local Valve Operation


This group supports 10 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_BINARY_V1| Linked to BASIC|
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_MULTILEVEL_V0| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_GRP_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_DEVICE_RESET_LOCALLY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ZWAVEPLUS_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_POWERLEVEL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V2| |

### Documentation Links

* [User Manual](https://www.cd-jackson.com/zwave_device_uploads/620/Manual-Flow-Stop-POPP-En.pdf)

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [contribute to the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/620).
