---
layout: documentation
title: POPE701202 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# POPE701202 Popp Mold detector
This describes the Z-Wave device *POPE701202*, manufactured by *Popp & Co* with the thing type UID of ```popp_pope701202v11_01_001```.
This version of the device is limited to firmware versions above 1.1

The device is in the category of *Sensor*, defining Device used to measure something.

The POPE701202 supports routing. This allows the device to communicate using other routing enabled devices as intermediate routers.  This device is unable to participate in the routing of data from other devices.

The POPE701202 does not permanently listen for messages sent from the controller - it will periodically wake up automatically to check if the controller has messages to send, but will sleep most of the time to conserve battery life. Refer to the *Wakeup Information* section below for further information.

## Overview

### Wakeup Information

The POPE701202 does not permanently listen for messages sent from the controller - it will periodically wake up automatically to check if the controller has messages to send, but will sleep most of the time to conserve battery life. The wakeup period can be configured in the user interface - it is advisable not to make this too short as it will impact battery life - a reasonable compromise is 1 hour.

The wakeup period does not impact the devices ability to report events or sensor data. The device can be manually woken with a button press on the device as described below - note that triggering a device to send an event is not the same as a wakeup notification, and this will not allow the controller to communicate with the device.

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the POPE701202 -:

| Channel Name | Channel ID | Channel Type | Category | Item Type |
|--------------|------------|--------------|----------|-----------|
| Binary Sensor | sensor_binary | sensor_binary |  | Switch | 
| Sensor (dew point) | sensor_dewpoint | sensor_dewpoint | Temperature | Number | 
| Sensor (relative humidity) | sensor_relhumidity | sensor_relhumidity | Humidity | Number | 
| Sensor (temperature) | sensor_temperature | sensor_temperature | Temperature | Number:Temperature | 
| Alarm | alarm_general | alarm_general | Alarm | Switch | 
| Battery Level | battery-level | system.battery_level | Battery | Number |

### Binary Sensor
Indicates if a sensor has triggered.

The ```sensor_binary``` channel is of type ```sensor_binary``` and supports the ```Switch``` item. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| ON | Triggered |
| OFF | Untriggered |

### Sensor (dew point)
Indicates the dewpoint.

The ```sensor_dewpoint``` channel is of type ```sensor_dewpoint``` and supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Temperature``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

### Sensor (relative humidity)
Indicates the current relative humidity.

The ```sensor_relhumidity``` channel is of type ```sensor_relhumidity``` and supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Humidity``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

### Sensor (temperature)
Indicates the current temperature.

The ```sensor_temperature``` channel is of type ```sensor_temperature``` and supports the ```Number:Temperature``` item and is in the ```Temperature``` category.

### Alarm
Indicates if an alarm is triggered.

The ```alarm_general``` channel is of type ```alarm_general``` and supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Alarm``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OFF | OK |
| ON | Alarm |

### Battery Level
Represents the battery level as a percentage (0-100%). Bindings for things supporting battery level in a different format (e.g. 4 levels) should convert to a percentage to provide a consistent battery level reading.

The ```system.battery-level``` channel is of type ```system.battery-level``` and supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Battery``` category.
This channel provides the battery level as a percentage and also reflects the low battery warning state. If the battery state is in low battery warning state, this will read 0%.


## Device Configuration

The device has no configuration parameters defined.

## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The device does not support associations.
## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SENSOR_BINARY_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SENSOR_MULTILEVEL_V8| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_GRP_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_DEVICE_RESET_LOCALLY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ZWAVEPLUS_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ALARM_V8| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_POWERLEVEL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_FIRMWARE_UPDATE_MD_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BATTERY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_WAKE_UP_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MULTI_CHANNEL_ASSOCIATION_V3| |

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [contribute to the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/1164).
