---
layout: documentation
title: ZV9001K8-DIM - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# ZV9001K8-DIM 4 group single color wall mounted remote
This describes the Z-Wave device *ZV9001K8-DIM*, manufactured by *[Sunricher](www.sunricher.com)* with the thing type UID of ```sunricher_zv9001k8dim_00_000```.

The device is in the category of Wall Switch, defining Any device attached to the wall that controls a binary status of something, for ex. a light switch.

# Overview

The SR-ZV9001K8-DIM is a new single color wall mounted push button z-wave secondary controller light switch which adopts latest z-wave RF Plus and Mesh network technology to switch and dim single color LED lighting. It is a universal z-wave slave and can be added to z-wave network or removed from z-wave network by z-wave primary (master) or gateway. The wall controller is powered by a cell lithium battery. The wireless dimmer is compatible with single color z wave device SR-ZV9101FA-DIM and different frequencies are available for different countries or areas. The signal transmit distance can be up to 30m. It supports 5 groups for associations, a lifeline group association to primary (master) controller and 4 groups association to devices, the groups association to devices support maximum 20 Z-wave devices per group. Compatible with existing frames from Berker, Gira, Jung and Merten, the z-wave secondary controller is easy to be mounted on the wall.

**Key Features**

- Z-wave secondary controller light switch
- Source-routed Mesh Network Architecture
- Each device works as a node
- All Nodes Are Transceivers
- Each Z-wave Network Allows Up to 243 Devices
- Actively route around and circumvent obstacles or radio dead spots
- Wireless Synchronization to Drastically Increase Control Distance
- Devices can communicate to one another by using intermediate nodes
- Added to z-wave network by z-wave masters or gateway
- Removed from z-wave network by z-wave masters or gateway
- Compatible with universal z-wave masters/gateway
- Supports 1 lifeline group association to master controller
- Supports 4 groups association to z-wave devices, maximum 20 devices per group

## Inclusion Information

Please make sure the battery of the wall mounted controller has enough power (press any key and if the blue LED  
indicator turns on, which means the remote works well) -> set the master controller or gateway into network inclusion or  
add device mode (please refer to the user manual to learn how) -> press and hold down both keys I and O at the top row  
(group 2) simultaneously on the wall controller until LED indicator turns on and flashes 6 times quickly to indicate  
successful adding -> there shall be an indication on the master controller or gateway.

## Exclusion Information

When the wall mounted controller has already been added to z-wave network, set z-wave master (primary) controller or  
z-wave gateway into network inclusion or remove device mode (please refer to the user manual to learn how) -> press  
and hold down both keys I and O at the top row (group 2) simultaneously on the wall controller until LED indicator turns  
on and shows 3 short blinks and 1 long blink to indicate successful removing -> there shall be an indication on the  
master controller or gateway.

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the ZV9001K8-DIM

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| switch_binary | switch_binary | Switch | Switch | 
| Scene Number | scene_number |  | Number | 

### switch_binary

Switch the power on and off

The ```switch_binary``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Switch``` category.

### Scene Number

Triggers when a scene button is pressed

The ```scene_number``` channel supports the ```Number``` item.



## Device Configuration

The device has no configuration parameters configured.

## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The ZV9001K8-DIM supports 5 association groups.

### Group 1: Lifeline


This group supports 1 nodes.

### Group 2: Launch 1


This group supports 20 nodes.

### Group 3: Launch 2


This group supports 20 nodes.

### Group 4: Launch 3


This group supports 20 nodes.

### Group 5: Launch 4


This group supports 20 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_GRP_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_DEVICE_RESET_LOCALLY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CENTRAL_SCENE_V3| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ZWAVEPLUS_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_POWERLEVEL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BATTERY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_WAKE_UP_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MULTI_CHANNEL_ASSOCIATION_V3| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SECURITY_V0| |

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [edit the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/824).
