---
layout: documentation
title: 12718 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# 12718 Smart Dimmer
This describes the Z-Wave device *12718*, manufactured by *Jasco Products* with the thing type UID of ```ge_12718_00_000```.

The device is in the category of Wall Switch, defining Any device attached to the wall that controls a binary status of something, for ex. a light switch.

# Overview

## Channels
The following table summarises the channels available for the 12718

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Dimmer | switch_dimmer | DimmableLight | Dimmer | 

### Dimmer
The ```switch_dimmer``` channel supports the ```Dimmer``` item and is in the ```DimmableLight``` category.



## Device Configuration
The following table provides a summary of the 3 configuration parameters available in the 12718.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 7 | Dimmer steps | number of steps or levels |
| 8 | Time between dimmer steps | Timing of the steps (10ms increments) |
| 29 | Load sensing | Turn load sensing on or off |

### Parameter 7: Dimmer steps
number of steps or levels

Values in the range 1 to 99 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 1.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_7_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 8: Time between dimmer steps
Timing of the steps (10ms increments)

Values in the range 1 to 255 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 3.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_8_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 29: Load sensing
Turn load sensing on or off

The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | disable (default) |
| 1 | enable load sensing |

The manufacturer defined default value is 0 (disable (default)).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_29_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups
Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The 12718 supports 0 association group.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_MULTILEVEL_V1| Linked to BASIC|
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_ALL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_POWERLEVEL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_NODE_NAMING_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V1| |

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [edit the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/339).
