---
layout: documentation
title: HS-DS100+ - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# HS-DS100+ Homeseer Z-Wave Door/Window Sensor
This describes the Z-Wave device *HS-DS100+*, manufactured by *HomeSeer Technologies* with the thing type UID of ```homeseer_hsds100_00_000```.

The device is in the category of Door, defining Door sensors.

# Overview

HS-DS100+ is a battery operated sensor that is designed to issue Z-Wave commands when doors or windows are opened or closed. HSDS100+ may be associated directly with other Z-Wave devices or it may be used with a wide variety of Z-Wave hubs and controllers to trigger events, scenes and other automations.

## Inclusion Information

1. Ensure AAA batteries are installed. Pull plastic tab from battery compartment (if necessary)
2. Put your home automation controller into ‘inclusion’ mode. Consult your system’s manual for details.
3. HS-DS100+ may be included “securely” (option a) or “non-securely” (option b). If your automation controller does not support secure devices, or if you wish to improve battery life, add the sensor “non-securely”. Otherwise, include the sensor “securely” 
  - a) Secure inclusion: Press and hold the Z-Wave button inside the sensor body for 3 seconds. Wait for the process to finish.
  - b) Non-Secure inclusion: Triple-click the Z-Wave button inside the sensor body. Wait for the process to finish.
4. If successful, the sensor body LED will blink briefly and then stay on for 3 seconds. If unsuccessful, the LED with blink briefly and then turn off. Should this happen, repeat the inclusion process.

Note: If you want this Door/window sensor to function as a security device using secure/encrypted Z-Wave communications, then a security enabled Z-Wave controller is required.

## Exclusion Information

1\. Put your home automation controller into ‘exclusion’ mode. Consult your system’s manual for details.

2\. Triple-click the Z-Wave button inside the sensor body. If successful, the LED will turn off within 1 second. If unsuccessful, the LED with blink for 5 seconds. Should this happen, repeat the exclusion process.

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the HS-DS100+

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Binary Sensor | sensor_binary | Door | Switch | 
| Tamper Alarm | alarm_tamper |  | Switch | 
| Door Sensor | sensor_door | Door | Contact | 

### Binary Sensor

The ```sensor_binary``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| ON | Triggered |
| OFF | Untriggered |

### Tamper Alarm

The ```alarm_tamper``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OFF | Ok |
| ON | Alarm |

### Door Sensor

The ```sensor_door``` channel supports the ```Contact``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Contact``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OPEN | Open |
| CLOSED | Closed |



## Device Configuration

The following table provides a summary of the 3 configuration parameters available in the HS-DS100+.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 14 | Enable / Disable BASIC SET command | Enable / Disable BASIC SET command |
| 15 | Value of BASIC SET |  |
| 32 | Defines value of LOW BATTERY | Defines value of LOW BATTERY |

### Parameter 14: Enable / Disable BASIC SET command

Enable / Disable BASIC SET command
A setting of “0” disables the regular reporting feature and requires the sensor to be manually woken up to send updates.
The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Disable |
| 1 | Enable |

The manufacturer defined default value is 0 (Disable).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_14_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 15: Value of BASIC SET



The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Sends 255 value for open and 0 value for closed |
| 1 | Sends 0 value for open and 255 value for closed |

The manufacturer defined default value is 0 (Sends 255 value for open and 0 value for closed).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_15_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 32: Defines value of LOW BATTERY

Defines value of LOW BATTERY

Values in the range 10 to 50 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 20.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_32_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The HS-DS100+ supports 2 association groups.

### Group 1: Group 1


This group supports 5 nodes.

### Group 2: Group 2


This group supports 5 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SENSOR_BINARY_V0| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_GRP_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_DEVICE_RESET_LOCALLY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ZWAVEPLUS_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ALARM_V5| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_POWERLEVEL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_FIRMWARE_UPDATE_MD_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BATTERY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_WAKE_UP_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V2| |

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [edit the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/732).
