---
layout: documentation
title: HS-MS100+ - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# HS-MS100+ HomeSeer Z-Wave Plus Motion Sensor
This describes the Z-Wave device *HS-MS100+*, manufactured by *HomeSeer Technologies* with the thing type UID of ```homeseer_hsms100_00_000```.

The device is in the category of Motion Detector, defining Motion sensors/detectors.

# Overview
Motion sensor can be included and operated in any Z-Wave network with other Z-Wave certified devices.   
The features list:   
1\) Z-Wave Plus certified for wide compatibility (500 serials product)  
2\) Supports security 0 and security 2 protected mode with AES-128 encryption.   
3\) Motion sensor.   
4\) Tamper alarm by shock sensor.   
5\) The battery life is up to 1 year.   
6\) Low battery alarm.   
7\) Support firmware OTA.

## Inclusion Information
1\) Open the cover

2\) Place the device withing the direct range of your Z-Wave controller

3\) Set the main controller into inclusion mode

4a) "Secure Inclusion". Hold Z-button for 5 sec and then release. The LED indicator should blink fast.

4b) "Non-secure Inclusion". Press Z-button once. The LED indicator should blink fast.

5\) Wait for the adding process to end

## Exclusion Information
1\) Open the cover

2\) Place the device withing the direct range of your Z-Wave controller

3\) Set the main controller into exclusion mode

4a) Triple click Z-button quickly. The LED indicator should blink fast.

5\) Wait for the removing process to end

## Wakeup Information
Press and hold Z button for more than 5 seconds and release

## Channels
The following table summarises the channels available for the HS-MS100+

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Binary Sensor | sensor_binary | Door | Switch | 
| Alarm (burglar) | alarm_burglar | Door | Switch | 

### Binary Sensor
The ```sensor_binary``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| ON | Triggered |
| OFF | Untriggered |

### Alarm (burglar)
The ```alarm_burglar``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OFF | Ok |
| ON | Alarm |



## Device Configuration
The following table provides a summary of the 6 configuration parameters available in the HS-MS100+.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 12 | Motion sensor sensitivity | Motion sensor sensitivity |
| 14 | Enable/Disable BASIC SET command | Enable/Disable BASIC SET command |
| 15 | Value of the BASIC SET | Value of the BASIC SET |
| 17 | Enable/ Disable shock alarm | Enable/ Disable shock alarm |
| 18 | Motion timeout interval | Motion timeout interval |
| 32 | Level of low battery | Level of low battery |

### Parameter 12: Motion sensor sensitivity
Motion sensor sensitivity
The higher the value, the more sensitive the PIR sensor.
Values in the range 1 to 8 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 8.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_12_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 14: Enable/Disable BASIC SET command
Enable/Disable BASIC SET command

The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Disable |
| 1 | Enable |

The manufacturer defined default value is 0 (Disable).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_14_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 15: Value of the BASIC SET
Value of the BASIC SET

The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Triggered value 255 |
| 1 | Triggered value 0 |

The manufacturer defined default value is 0 (Triggered value 255).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_15_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 17: Enable/ Disable shock alarm
Enable/ Disable shock alarm

The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Do not send a vibration alarm |
| 1 | Send a vibration alarm |

The manufacturer defined default value is 1 (Send a vibration alarm).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_17_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 18: Motion timeout interval
Motion timeout interval
Set 0 to disable report.

Value 1 to 65535 set timeout of transmitting command when motion has not been sensed for a period of time
Values in the range 0 to 65535 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 600.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_18_2``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 32: Level of low battery
Level of low battery
The low level from 10% to 50%
Values in the range 10 to 50 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 20.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_32_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups
Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The HS-MS100+ supports 2 association groups.

### Group 1: Group 1

This group supports 5 nodes.

### Group 2: Group 2

This group supports 5 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SENSOR_BINARY_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_GRP_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_DEVICE_RESET_LOCALLY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ZWAVEPLUS_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ALARM_V5| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_POWERLEVEL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_FIRMWARE_UPDATE_MD_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BATTERY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_WAKE_UP_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SECURITY_V0| |

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [edit the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/802).
