---
layout: documentation
title: HS-WD100+ - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# HS-WD100+ Scene Capable Wall Dimmer Switch
This describes the Z-Wave device *HS-WD100+*, manufactured by *HomeSeer Technologies* with the thing type UID of ```homeseer_hswd100_00_000```.

The device is in the category of Wall Switch, defining Any device attached to the wall that controls a binary status of something, for ex. a light switch.

# Overview


## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the HS-WD100+

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Dimmer | switch_dimmer | DimmableLight | Dimmer | 
| Scene Number | scene_number |  | Number | 

### Dimmer

The ```switch_dimmer``` channel supports the ```Dimmer``` item and is in the ```DimmableLight``` category.

### Scene Number

The ```scene_number``` channel supports the ```Number``` item.



## Device Configuration

The following table provides a summary of the 5 configuration parameters available in the HS-WD100+.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 4 | Orientation | Controls the on/off orientation of the rocker switch |
| 7 | Remote Dimming Level Increment | Number of levels (1-99) to change dimming each step when controlled remotely |
| 8 | Remote Dimming Step Duration | Time interval (in tens of ms) of brightness change when controlled remotely |
| 9 | Local Dimming Level Increment | Number of levels (1-99) to change dimming each step when controlled locally |
| 10 | Local Dimming Step Duration | Time interval (in tens of ms) of brightness change when controlled locally |

### Parameter 4: Orientation

Controls the on/off orientation of the rocker switch

The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Normal |
| 1 | Inverted |

The manufacturer defined default value is 0 (Normal).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_4_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 7: Remote Dimming Level Increment

Number of levels (1-99) to change dimming each step when controlled remotely
This is the step value that the dimmer level is incremented or decremented for each step duration when controlled remotely.

(This parameter was added in firmware version 5.14)
Values in the range 1 to 99 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 1.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_7_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 8: Remote Dimming Step Duration

Time interval (in tens of ms) of brightness change when controlled remotely
Select time interval to move to the next brightness level. The larger the number, the slower the adjustment to dim levels.

(This parameter was added in firmware version 5.14)
Values in the range 1 to 255 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 3.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_8_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 9: Local Dimming Level Increment

Number of levels (1-99) to change dimming each step when controlled locally
This is the step value that the dimmer level is incremented or decremented for each step duration when controlled locally.
Values in the range 1 to 99 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 1.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_9_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 10: Local Dimming Step Duration

Time interval (in tens of ms) of brightness change when controlled locally
Select time interval to move to the next brightness level. The larger the number, the slower the adjustment to dim levels.
Values in the range 1 to 255 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 3.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_10_2``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The HS-WD100+ supports 1 association group.

### Group 1: Lifeline

Lifeline association only supports the "manual reset" event.
This group supports 5 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_MULTILEVEL_V1| Linked to BASIC|
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_ALL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SCENE_ACTIVATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_GRP_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_DEVICE_RESET_LOCALLY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CENTRAL_SCENE_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ZWAVEPLUS_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_POWERLEVEL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_FIRMWARE_UPDATE_MD_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V2| |

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [edit the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/346).
