---
layout: documentation
title: 507601 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# 507601 Dual Pole Wall Switch
This describes the Z-Wave device *507601*, manufactured by *Merten* with the thing type UID of ```merten_507601_00_000```.

The device is in the category of *Wall Switch*, defining Any device attached to the wall that controls a binary status of something, for ex. a light switch.

The 507601 does not permanently listening for messages sent from the controller - it will periodically wake up automatically to check if the controller has messages to send, but will sleep most of the time to conserve battery life. The wakeup period can be configured in the user interface - it is advisable not to make this too short as it will impact battery life - a reasonable compromise is 1 hour. The wakeup period does not impact the devices ability to report events or sensor data. The device can be manually woken with a button press on the device as described below - note that triggering a device to send an event is not the same as a wakeup notification, and this will not allow the controller to communicate with the device.

## Overview

No device information is provided in the database. Consider [updating the database](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/399) to improve the documentation.

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the 507601

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Switch | switch_binary | Switch | Switch | 

### Switch

Switch the power on and off

The ```switch_binary``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Switch``` category.



## Device Configuration

The following table provides a summary of the 3 configuration parameters available in the 507601.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 176 | Staircase  timer byte 1 |  |
| 177 | Staircase  timer byte 2 |  |
| 183 | Additional limit duration (after brief interruption) | Unsure what this does |

### Parameter 176: Staircase  timer byte 1



Values in the range 0 to 127 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```0```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_176_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 177: Staircase  timer byte 2



Values in the range 0 to 127 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```0```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_177_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 183: Additional limit duration (after brief interruption)

Unsure what this does

Values in the range 0 to 127 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```30```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_183_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The 507601 supports 1 association group.

### Group 1: Group 1


This group supports 5 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_BINARY_V0| Linked to BASIC|

### Documentation Links

* [User Manual](https://www.cd-jackson.com/zwave_device_uploads/399/V5075-581-00-web.pdf)

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [contribute to the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/399).
