---
layout: documentation
title: 507900 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# 507900 Wall Dimmer Module - Flush Mounted
This describes the Z-Wave device *507900*, manufactured by *Merten* with the thing type UID of ```merten_507900_00_000```.

# Overview

The flush-mounted CONNECT radio receiver, 1-gang universal dimmer, will be referred to below as "dimmer".

The dimmer is used to switch and dim luminaires (see technical data) via radio signal and via an extension push-button connected directly to the dimmer.

The dimmer automatically recognises the connected load, is overload-proof, short-circuit-proof and hum-free, and has a soft start function which slowly dims up a connected load.

## Inclusion Information

Teaching (transmits Node info frame), see CONNECT radio system description

## Exclusion Information

Reset to the factory settings; de- lete everything taught

## Wakeup Information

Triple click on the switch button

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the 507900

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Dimmer | switch_dimmer | DimmableLight | Dimmer | 

### Dimmer

The ```switch_dimmer``` channel supports the ```Dimmer``` item and is in the ```DimmableLight``` category.



## Device Configuration

The following table provides a summary of the 1 configuration parameters available in the 507900.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 196 |  Dimmer speed | Set dimming speed. fast=0 ... 240=slow. |

### Parameter 196:  Dimmer speed

Set dimming speed. fast=0 ... 240=slow.

Values in the range 0 to 240 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 0.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_196_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The 507900 supports 1 association group.

### Group 1: Group 1


This group supports 5 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_MULTILEVEL_V1| Linked to BASIC|
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_ALL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_TOGGLE_MULTILEVEL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_PROTECTION_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MULTI_CHANNEL_ASSOCIATION_V1| |

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [edit the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/446).
