---
layout: documentation
title: PAN08 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# PAN08 Roller shutter
This describes the Z-Wave device *PAN08*, manufactured by *[Zipato](http://www.zipato.com/)* with the thing type UID of ```zipato__00_000```.

The device is in the category of *Blinds*, defining Roller shutters, window blinds, etc..

The PAN08 supports routing. This allows the device to communicate using other routing enabled devices as intermediate routers.  This device is also able to participate in the routing of data between other devices in the mesh network.

## Overview

### Inclusion Information

Put your Z-Wave controller into inclusion mode by following the instructions provided by the controller manufacturer.

Pressing Include button three times within 2 seconds will enter inclusion mode. 

### Exclusion Information

Put the Z-Wave Controller in exclusion mode.

Pressing Include button three times within 2 seconds will enter exclusion mode.

Node ID has been excluded.

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the PAN08 -:

| Channel Name | Channel ID | Channel Type | Category | Item Type |
|--------------|------------|--------------|----------|-----------|



## Device Configuration

The device has no configuration parameters defined.

## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The device does not support associations.
## Technical Information

### Endpoints


---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [contribute to the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/923).
