---
layout: documentation
title: ZD2102 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# ZD2102 Door Window Sensor
This describes the Z-Wave device *ZD2102*, manufactured by *Vision Security* with the thing type UID of ```vision_zd2102_00_000```.

The device is in the category of Door, defining Door sensors.

# Overview


## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the ZD2102

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Sensor (Binary) | sensor_door | Door | Contact | 
| Tamper Alarm | alarm_tamper |  | Switch | 
| Sensor (Alarm) | alarm_entry | Door | Switch | 

### Sensor (Binary)

The ```sensor_door``` channel supports the ```Contact``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Contact``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OPEN | Open |
| CLOSED | Closed |

### Tamper Alarm

The ```alarm_tamper``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OFF | Ok |
| ON | Alarm |

### Sensor (Alarm)

The ```alarm_entry``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| ON | Open |
| OFF | Closed |



## Device Configuration

The device has no configuration parameters configugured.

## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The ZD2102 supports 1 association group.

### Group 1: Control Command


This group supports 5 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SENSOR_BINARY_V1| Linked to BASIC|
| COMMAND_CLASS_ALARM_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BATTERY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_WAKE_UP_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V1| |

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [edit the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/105).
