---
layout: documentation
title: ZD2105 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# ZD2105 Recessed Door Window Sensor
This describes the Z-Wave device *ZD2105*, manufactured by *[Vision Security](http://www.visionsecurity.com.tw/)* with the thing type UID of ```vision_zd2105_00_000```.

The ZD2105 supports routing. This allows the device to communicate using other routing enabled devices as intermediate routers.  This device is unable to participate in the routing of data from other devices.

The ZD2105 does not permanently listen for messages sent from the controller - it will periodically wake up automatically to check if the controller has messages to send, but will sleep most of the time to conserve battery life. The wakeup period can be configured in the user interface - it is advisable not to make this too short as it will impact battery life - a reasonable compromise is 1 hour. The wakeup period does not impact the devices ability to report events or sensor data. The device can be manually woken with a button press on the device as described below - note that triggering a device to send an event is not the same as a wakeup notification, and this will not allow the controller to communicate with the device.

## Overview

https://fccid.io/KFR-ZD2105US-5

or

http://www.monoprice.com/product?p\_id=15268

### Inclusion Information

For “Inclusion” in (adding to) a network: Put the Z-WaveTM Interface Controller into “inclusion” mode, and following its instruction to add the ZD2105 to your controller. To get in the “inclusion” mode, please press the Program Switch of ZD2105 for sending the NIF. After sending NIF, Z-Wave will send the auto inclusion; otherwise, ZD2105 will go to sleep after 20 seconds

### Exclusion Information

For “Exclusion” from (removing from) a network: Put the Z-WaveTM Interface Controller into “exclusion” mode, and following its instruction to delete the ZD2105 from your controller. Press the Program Switch of ZD2105 for 1 second at least to be excluded.

Note: All user and network settings will be cleared and the device reset to factory

### Wakeup Information

Awake Mode:

It will be triggering after opening the cover, also the red LED will keep on lasting 10 seconds and ZD2105 will send “Wake Up Notification” after 10 seconds. If ZD2105 received “Wake Up No More Information” command then the red LED will go off or it will wait 10 seconds then go off. It will proceed all the commands after sending the “Wake Up Notification”

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the ZD2105 -:

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Door status | sensor_door | Door | Contact | 
| Alarm (burglar) | alarm_burglar | Door | Switch | 
| Alarm (access) | alarm_access | Door | Switch | 
| Battery Level | battery-level | Battery | Number |

### Door status

changed to sensor\_door for OPEN/CLOSED

Indicates if the door/window is open or closed.

The ```sensor_door``` channel supports the ```Contact``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Contact``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OPEN | Open |
| CLOSED | Closed |

### Alarm (burglar)

Indicates if the burglar alarm is triggered.

The ```alarm_burglar``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OFF | Ok |
| ON | Alarm |

### Alarm (access)

Indicates if the access control alarm is triggered.

The ```alarm_access``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OFF | Ok |
| ON | Alarm |

### Battery Level

Represents the battery level as a percentage (0-100%). Bindings for things supporting battery level in a different format (e.g. 4 levels) should convert to a percentage to provide a consistent battery level reading.

The ```battery-level``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Battery``` category.



## Device Configuration

The following table provides a summary of the 1 configuration parameters available in the ZD2105.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 1 | External switch | Determines if external switch can be used. |
|  | Wakeup Interval | Sets the interval at which the device will accept commands from the controller |
|  | Wakeup Node | Sets the node ID of the device to receive the wakeup notifications |

### Parameter 1: External switch

Determines if external switch can be used.

The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Disabled |
| 255 | Enabled |

The manufacturer defined default value is ```0``` (Disabled).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_1_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.

### Wakeup Interval

The wakeup interval sets the period at which the device will listen for messages from the controller. This is required for battery devices that sleep most of the time in order to conserve battery life. The device will wake up at this interval and send a message to the controller to tell it that it can accept messages - after a few seconds, it will go back to sleep if there is no further communications. 

This setting is defined in *seconds*. It is advisable not to set this interval too short or it could impact battery life. A period of 1 hour (3600 seconds) is suitable in most instances.

Note that this setting does not affect the devices ability to send sensor data, or notification events.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```wakeup_interval``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.

### Wakeup Node

When sleeping devices wake up, they send a notification to a listening device. Normally, this device is the network controller, and normally the controller will set this automatically to its own address.
In the event that the network contains multiple controllers, it may be necessary to configure this to a node that is not the main controller. This is an advanced setting and should not be changed without a full understanding of the impact.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```wakeup_node``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The ZD2105 supports 1 association group.

### Group 1: Control Command


This group supports 5 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SENSOR_BINARY_V0| Linked to BASIC|
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_GRP_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_DEVICE_RESET_LOCALLY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ZWAVEPLUS_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ALARM_V3| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_POWERLEVEL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_FIRMWARE_UPDATE_MD_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BATTERY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_WAKE_UP_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V2| |

### Documentation Links

* [User Manual](https://www.cd-jackson.com/zwave_device_uploads/420/FCCID-io-2875706.pdf)

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [contribute to the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/420).
