---
layout: documentation
title: ZD2201 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# ZD2201 Multisensor 4in1
This describes the Z-Wave device *ZD2201*, manufactured by *Vision Security* with the thing type UID of ```vision_zd2201_00_000```.

The device is in the category of Sensor, defining Device used to measure something.

# Overview
Contact/temperature/humidity/luminance sensor. Can also be called Zipato Quad Sensor (Z+).

## Channels
The following table summarises the channels available for the ZD2201

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Sensor (temperature) | sensor_temperature | Temperature | Number | 
| Sensor (luminance) | sensor_luminance | Temperature | Number | 
| Sensor (relative humidity) | sensor_relhumidity | Humidity | Number | 
| Door sensor | sensor_door | Door | Contact | 
| Tamper Alarm | alarm_tamper |  | Switch | 

### Sensor (temperature)
The ```sensor_temperature``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Temperature``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

### Sensor (luminance)
The ```sensor_luminance``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Temperature``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

### Sensor (relative humidity)
The ```sensor_relhumidity``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Humidity``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

### Door sensor
The ```sensor_door``` channel supports the ```Contact``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Contact``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OPEN | Open |
| CLOSED | Closed |

### Tamper Alarm
The ```alarm_tamper``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OFF | Ok |
| ON | Alarm |



## Device Configuration
The following table provides a summary of the 4 configuration parameters available in the ZD2201.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 1 | Temperature unit |  |
| 2 | Temperature Reporting Threshold | Set up from 0.1C to 5C |
| 3 | Humidity Reporting Threshold | Set up from 1%-50% |
| 4 |  | Set up from 5%-50% |

### Parameter 1: Temperature unit


The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Celsius (default) |
| 1 | Fahrenheit |

The manufacturer defined default value is 0 (Celsius (default)).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_1_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 2: Temperature Reporting Threshold
Set up from 0.1C to 5C
Threshold change in temperature to induce an automatic report. 1 to 50 ( Set up from 0.1C to 5C)
Values in the range 1 to 50 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 1.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_2_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 3: Humidity Reporting Threshold
Set up from 1%-50%
Threshold change in humidity to induce an automatic report. 1 to 50 ( Set up from 1%-50%)
Values in the range 1 to 50 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 10.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_3_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 4: 
Set up from 5%-50%
Threshold change in luminance to induce an automatic report. 0 is disabled. 5 to 50 ( Set up from 5%-50%)
Values in the range 0 to 50 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is 10.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_4_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups
Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The ZD2201 supports 1 association group.

### Group 1: Lifeline

This group supports 5 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SENSOR_MULTILEVEL_V5| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ALARM_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BATTERY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_WAKE_UP_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V1| |

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [edit the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/450).
