---
layout: documentation
title: ZF5201EU-5 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# ZF5201EU-5 Vision Flood Sensor
This describes the Z-Wave device *ZF5201EU-5*, manufactured by *Vision Security* with the thing type UID of ```vision_zf5201eu_00_000```.

The device is in the category of Sensor, defining Device used to measure something.

# Overview

This sensor is a Z-Wave™ enabled device (interoperable, two-way RF mesh networking technology) and is fully compatible with any Z-Wave™ enabled network and it’s security framework. Every main powered Z-Wave enabled devices act as a signal repeater and multiple devices result in more possible transmission routes which helps eliminate “RF dead-sports”

## Inclusion Information

For “Inclusion” in (adding to) a network: Put the Z-Wave™ Interface Controller into “inclusion” mode, and following its instruction to add the ZF5201 to the controller. To get in the “inclusion” mode, the distance between sensor and controller is suggested to be in one meter. Press the program switch of ZF5201 for 1 second at least. The LED on the ZF5201 should go solid, if not, please try again.

## Exclusion Information

For “Exclusion” from (removing from) a network: Put the Z-Wave™ Interface Controller into “exclusion” mode, and following its instruction to delete the ZF5201 from your controller. Press the program switch of ZF5201 for 1 second at least to be excluded.

## Wakeup Information

”Awake” mode: it is to leave the “Sleep” mode by removing the cover of ZF5201, to allow the Z-Wave™ Interface Controller to do “Inclusion”, “Exclusion”, “Association” and to reply and receive the commands from controller

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the ZF5201EU-5

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Binary Sensor | sensor_binary | Door | Switch | 
| Alarm (flood) | alarm_flood | Door | Switch | 
| Alarm (burglar) | alarm_burglar | Door | Switch | 

### Binary Sensor

The ```sensor_binary``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| ON | Triggered |
| OFF | Untriggered |

### Alarm (flood)

The ```alarm_flood``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OFF | Ok |
| ON | Alarm |

### Alarm (burglar)

The ```alarm_burglar``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OFF | Ok |
| ON | Alarm |



## Device Configuration

The following table provides a summary of the 0 configuration parameter available in the ZF5201EU-5.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|

## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The ZF5201EU-5 supports 0 association group.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SENSOR_BINARY_V0| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_GRP_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_DEVICE_RESET_LOCALLY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ZWAVEPLUS_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ALARM_V4| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_POWERLEVEL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_FIRMWARE_UPDATE_MD_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BATTERY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_WAKE_UP_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V2| |

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [edit the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/849).
