---
layout: documentation
title: ZL7431 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# ZL7431 In Wall Relay Switch
This describes the Z-Wave device *ZL7431*, manufactured by *Vision Security* with the thing type UID of ```vision_zl7431_00_000```.

The device is in the category of Wall Switch, defining Any device attached to the wall that controls a binary status of something, for ex. a light switch.

# Overview

## Channels
The following table summarises the channels available for the ZL7431

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Switch | switch_binary | Switch | Switch | 

### Switch
The ```switch_binary``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Switch``` category.



## Device Configuration
The following table provides a summary of the 1 configuration parameter available in the ZL7431.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 1 |  |  |

### Parameter 1: 


The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 1 | Set to 1 for a Single Wall Switch without Indicator Light or for |
| 2 | Set to 2 for a Single Wall Switch with Indicator Light |

The manufacturer defined default value is 1 (Set to 1 for a Single Wall Switch without
					Indicator Light or for).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_1_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups
Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The ZL7431 supports 1 association group.

### Group 1: Update Controller

This group supports 5 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_BINARY_V1| Linked to BASIC|
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_ALL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V1| |

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [edit the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/111).
