---
layout: documentation
title: ZM1702 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# ZM1702 Door Lock with Handle
This describes the Z-Wave device *ZM1702*, manufactured by *[Vision Security](http://www.visionsecurity.com.tw/)* with the thing type UID of ```vision_zm1702_00_000```.

The device is in the category of *Lock*, defining Devices whose primary pupose is locking something.

The ZM1702 supports routing. This allows the device to communicate using other routing enabled devices as intermediate routers.  This device is unable to participate in the routing of data from other devices.

## Overview

The ZM1702 is a Z-Wave controllable, single dead bolt lock. The mechanics can be adopted to right or left opening doors. The door lock can be applied for doors from a thickness of 38 mm and up. The door can be locked and unlocked using the inner side turn piece and/or the key pad. The wireless control allows to lock/unlock the lock, set/unset up to 15 different key codes (4 - 8 key long) and to limit the validity of certain key code.

### Inclusion Information

Press Keypads 'C', '8', '8', '8' and manually turn the door lock from inside to be included.

### Exclusion Information

Press Keypads 'C', '8', '8', '8' and manually turn the door lock from inside to be excluded.

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the ZM1702 -:

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Door Lock | lock_door | Door | Switch | 
| Battery Level | battery-level | Battery | Number |
| Entry Alarm | alarm_entry | Door | Switch | 

### Door Lock

Lock and unlock the door.

The ```lock_door``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category.

### Battery Level

Represents the battery level as a percentage (0-100%). Bindings for things supporting battery level in a different format (e.g. 4 levels) should convert to a percentage to provide a consistent battery level reading.

The ```battery-level``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Battery``` category.

### Entry Alarm

Indicates if the entry alarm is triggered.

The ```alarm_entry``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| ON | Open |
| OFF | Closed |



## Device Configuration

The device has no configuration parameters configured.

## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The ZM1702 supports 1 association group.

### Group 1: Report

Target for Door Lock Operation Report commands
This group supports 5 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| Linked to BASIC|
| COMMAND_CLASS_DOOR_LOCK_LOGGING_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SCHEDULE_ENTRY_LOCK_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_DOOR_LOCK_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_USER_CODE_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BATTERY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_TIME_PARAMETERS_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SECURITY_V1| |

### Documentation Links

* [User Manual](https://www.cd-jackson.com/zwave_device_uploads/411/zm1702.pdf)

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [contribute to the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/411).
