---
layout: documentation
title: ZP3102 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# ZP3102 Motion/Temperature Sensor
This describes the Z-Wave device *ZP3102*, manufactured by *[Vision Security](http://www.visionsecurity.com.tw/)* with the thing type UID of ```vision_zp3102_08_000```.
This version of the device is limited to firmware versions above 8.0

The device is in the category of *Motion Detector*, defining Motion sensors/detectors.

The ZP3102 supports routing. This allows the device to communicate using other routing enabled devices as intermediate routers.  This device is unable to participate in the routing of data from other devices.

The ZP3102 does not permanently listen for messages sent from the controller - it will periodically wake up automatically to check if the controller has messages to send, but will sleep most of the time to conserve battery life. The wakeup period can be configured in the user interface - it is advisable not to make this too short as it will impact battery life - a reasonable compromise is 1 hour. The wakeup period does not impact the devices ability to report events or sensor data. The device can be manually woken with a button press on the device as described below - note that triggering a device to send an event is not the same as a wakeup notification, and this will not allow the controller to communicate with the device.

## Overview

The ZP3102 is a Z-Wave enabled motion detector and temperature sensor. The motion detector has 120 degrees of horizontal visibility and 60 degrees of vertical visibility. The temperature sensor that is built in to the ZP3102 is capable of reporting in both Celsius and Fahrenheit scales, and may be queried for the temperature and it will report it automatically when it detects changes. The sensor is battery operated and includes the ability to report the battery level and will transmit an alert signal if the battery assumes a critically low level. The ZP3102 is future-proofed by also supporting the ability to have its firmware updated over the Z-Wave network.

### Inclusion Information

Put the Z-Wave Interface Controller into 'inclusion' mode, and follow its instructions to add the ZP3102 to your Z-Wave network. For a successful inclusion, it is suggested to have the sensor and your Z-Wave controller about one meter apart. Press the Program Switch of the ZP3102 (refer to the manual for the location of the program switch) ready the ZP3102 for inclusion into the Z-Wave network. If inclusion does not take place or is unsuccessful within 20 seconds, the ZP3102 will go to sleep; if this happens, simply repeat pressing the program switch to try again.

### Exclusion Information

Put the Z-Wave Interface Controller into “exclusion” mode, and following its instruction to delete the ZP3102 to your Z-Wave network. Press the Program Switch of ZP3102 once to be excluded. The LED on the ZP3102 should start to flash.

### Wakeup Information

Remove the rear cover to wake up the device, or set the wake up interval time from 10 minutes to 1 week. The battery will be drained quickly if you fail to replace the cover after using that method to wake up the device.

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the ZP3102 -:

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Binary Sensor | sensor_binary | Door | Switch | 
| Sensor (temperature) | sensor_temperature | Temperature | Number | 
| Alarm (burglar) | alarm_burglar | Door | Switch | 
| Battery Level | battery-level | Battery | Number |

### Binary Sensor

Indicates if a sensor has triggered.

The ```sensor_binary``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| ON | Triggered |
| OFF | Untriggered |

### Sensor (temperature)

Indicates the current temperature.

The ```sensor_temperature``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Temperature``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

### Alarm (burglar)

Indicates if the burglar alarm is triggered.

The ```alarm_burglar``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OFF | Ok |
| ON | Alarm |

### Battery Level

Represents the battery level as a percentage (0-100%). Bindings for things supporting battery level in a different format (e.g. 4 levels) should convert to a percentage to provide a consistent battery level reading.

The ```battery-level``` channel supports the ```Number``` item and is in the ```Battery``` category.



## Device Configuration

The following table provides a summary of the 3 configuration parameters available in the ZP3102.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 1 | On time in minutes | Delay before sending OFF |
| 2 | Celsius / Fahrenheit | 0 = Celsius, 1 = Fahrenheit |
| 3 | Infrared sensor sensitivity adjustment | 1 is most sensitive, 7 is least |
|  | Wakeup Interval | Sets the interval at which the device will accept commands from the controller |
|  | Wakeup Node | Sets the node ID of the device to receive the wakeup notifications |

### Parameter 1: On time in minutes

Delay before sending OFF

Values in the range 1 to 255 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```3```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_1_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 2: Celsius / Fahrenheit

0 = Celsius, 1 = Fahrenheit

The following option values may be configured -:

| Value  | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| 0 | Celsius |
| 1 | Fahrenheit |

The manufacturer defined default value is ```0``` (Celsius).

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_2_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 3: Infrared sensor sensitivity adjustment

1 is most sensitive, 7 is least
(Parameter 3) Infrared sensor sensitivity adjustment, 7 levels sensitivity, 1 = most  
sensitive, 7 = most insensitive, default values= 4
Values in the range 1 to 7 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```4```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_3_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.

### Wakeup Interval

The wakeup interval sets the period at which the device will listen for messages from the controller. This is required for battery devices that sleep most of the time in order to conserve battery life. The device will wake up at this interval and send a message to the controller to tell it that it can accept messages - after a few seconds, it will go back to sleep if there is no further communications. 

This setting is defined in *seconds*. It is advisable not to set this interval too short or it could impact battery life. A period of 1 hour (3600 seconds) is suitable in most instances.

Note that this setting does not affect the devices ability to send sensor data, or notification events.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```wakeup_interval``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.

### Wakeup Node

When sleeping devices wake up, they send a notification to a listening device. Normally, this device is the network controller, and normally the controller will set this automatically to its own address.
In the event that the network contains multiple controllers, it may be necessary to configure this to a node that is not the main controller. This is an advanced setting and should not be changed without a full understanding of the impact.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```wakeup_node``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The ZP3102 supports 1 association group.

### Group 1: Control Command


This group supports 5 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SENSOR_BINARY_V0| Linked to BASIC|
| COMMAND_CLASS_SENSOR_MULTILEVEL_V5| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_GRP_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_DEVICE_RESET_LOCALLY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ZWAVEPLUS_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ALARM_V4| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_POWERLEVEL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_FIRMWARE_UPDATE_MD_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BATTERY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_WAKE_UP_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SECURITY_V0| |

### Documentation Links

* [User Manual](https://www.cd-jackson.com/zwave_device_uploads/437/ZP-3102-5-PIR-R3-500-Series-20150724.pdf)

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [contribute to the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/437).
