---
layout: documentation
title: ZS5101 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# ZS5101 Shock Sensor
This describes the Z-Wave device *ZS5101*, manufactured by *Vision Security* with the thing type UID of ```vision_zs5101_00_000```.

# Overview
ZS5101 detects the vibrations made by an intruder trying to break a window or door, and also detect tamper situations, it will send Z-Wave signal when vibrations or tamper situations are detected.

## Inclusion Information
For "Inclusion" in (adding to) a network: Put the Z-Wave Interface Controller into "inclusion" mode, and following its instruction to add the ZS5101 to your controller. To get in the "inclusion" mode, the distance between sensor and controller is suggested to be in one meter. Press the program/tamper switch of ZS5101 for 1 second at least to be included. The LED on the ZS5101 should go off, if not, please try again

## Exclusion Information
For "Exclusion" from (removing from) a network: Put the Z-Wave Interface Controller into "exclusion" mode, and following its instruction to delete the ZS5101 from your controller. Press the program/tamper switch of ZS5101 for 1 second at least to be excluded.

## Wakeup Information
"Awake" mode: it is to leave the "Sleep" mode by removing the cover of ZS5101, to allow the Z-Wave Interface Controller to do "Inclusion", "Exclusion", "Association" and to reply and receive the commands from controller.

## Channels
The following table summarises the channels available for the ZS5101

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Binary Sensor | sensor_binary | Door | Switch | 
| Shock Alarm | alarm_access | Door | Switch | 
| Tamper Alarm | alarm_tamper |  | Switch | 

### Binary Sensor
The ```sensor_binary``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| ON | Triggered |
| OFF | Untriggered |

### Shock Alarm
The ```alarm_access``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Door``` category. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OFF | Ok |
| ON | Alarm |

### Tamper Alarm
The ```alarm_tamper``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item. This is a read only channel so will only be updated following state changes from the device.

The following state translation is provided for this channel to the ```Switch``` item type -:

| Value | Label     |
|-------|-----------|
| OFF | Ok |
| ON | Alarm |



## Device Configuration
The following table provides a summary of the 0 configuration parameter available in the ZS5101.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|

## Association Groups
Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The ZS5101 supports 1 association group.

### Group 1: Lifeline

This group supports 1 nodes.

## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SENSOR_BINARY_V0| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_GRP_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_DEVICE_RESET_LOCALLY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ZWAVEPLUS_INFO_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ALARM_V4| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_POWERLEVEL_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_FIRMWARE_UPDATE_MD_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BATTERY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_WAKE_UP_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_ASSOCIATION_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V2| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SECURITY_V0| |

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [edit the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/442).
