---
layout: documentation
title: ZW4101 - ZWave
---

{% include base.html %}

# ZW4101 Drapery controller (up/stop/down)
This describes the Z-Wave device *ZW4101*, manufactured by *[Vision Security](http://www.visionsecurity.com.tw/)* with the thing type UID of ```vision_zw4101_00_000```.

The ZW4101 supports routing. This allows the device to communicate using other routing enabled devices as intermediate routers.  This device is also able to participate in the routing of data from other devices.

## Overview

Drapery controller, supports up/stop/down commands.

Devices is OEMed as Monoprice 11993.

## Channels

The following table summarises the channels available for the ZW4101 -:

| Channel | Channel Id | Category | Item Type |
|---------|------------|----------|-----------|
| Switch | switch_binary | Switch | Switch | 
| Dimmer | switch_dimmer | DimmableLight | Dimmer | 

### Switch

Switch the power on and off.

The ```switch_binary``` channel supports the ```Switch``` item and is in the ```Switch``` category.

### Dimmer

The brightness channel allows to control the brightness of a light.
            It is also possible to switch the light on and off.

The ```switch_dimmer``` channel supports the ```Dimmer``` item and is in the ```DimmableLight``` category.



## Device Configuration

The following table provides a summary of the 3 configuration parameters available in the ZW4101.
Detailed information on each parameter can be found in the sections below.

| Param | Name  | Description |
|-------|-------|-------------|
| 1 | Up output time | Up output time |
| 2 | Stop output time | Stop output time |
| 3 | Down output time | Down output time |

### Parameter 1: Up output time

Up output time
Time to hold the "up" output button closed (shorted) when unit receives an "up" z-wave command.
Values in the range 1 to 255 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```1```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_1_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 2: Stop output time

Stop output time
Time to hold the "stop" output button closed (shorted) when unit receives a "stop" z-wave command.

Note that the unit will automatically execute STOP, UP or STOP, DOWN when receiving an up or down command.
Values in the range 1 to 255 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```1```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_2_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


### Parameter 3: Down output time

Down output time
Time to hold the "down" output button closed (shorted) when unit receives a "down" z-wave command.
Values in the range 1 to 255 may be set.

The manufacturer defined default value is ```1```.

This parameter has the configuration ID ```config_3_1``` and is of type ```INTEGER```.


## Association Groups

Association groups allow the device to send unsolicited reports to the controller, or other devices in the network. Using association groups can allow you to eliminate polling, providing instant feedback of a device state change without unnecessary network traffic.

The device does not support associations.
## Technical Information

### Endpoints

#### Endpoint 0

| Command Class | Comment |
|---------------|---------|
| COMMAND_CLASS_NO_OPERATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_BASIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_BINARY_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_SWITCH_MULTILEVEL_V3| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_CONFIGURATION_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_MANUFACTURER_SPECIFIC_V1| |
| COMMAND_CLASS_VERSION_V1| |

### Documentation Links

* [User Manual](https://www.cd-jackson.com/zwave_device_uploads/300/vision-zw4102-also-known-as-monoprice-curtain-module-ZW-4101-ZW-4102-Curtain-Module-Manual.pdf)

---

Did you spot an error in the above definition or want to improve the content?
You can [contribute to the database here](http://www.cd-jackson.com/index.php/zwave/zwave-device-database/zwave-device-list/devicesummary/300).
